Coffee plantations have replaced opium fields on Mount DoiTung in Thailand's northern Chiang Rai and transformed the life of many thousands of ethnic minorities in the area. CHIANG RAI, Thailand: From the sky, Mount DoiTung looks like a thick carpet of dark green forest. Huge trees sprawl across its misty hills, towering over coffee plantations and brilliantly colorful flowers.Thirty years ago, perhaps no one could have imagined such a stunning landscape on DoiTung. Its old residents would have described it as bleak and barren – a hopeless place atop the Doi Nang Non Mountain range inhabited by poor ethnic minorities and forgotten by the rest of Thailand.“There were opium fields everywhere. Every family grew and sold it to Burmese traders,” said former opium farmer Somjit Wiboonkitphaisan.“There were no police or soldiers here before. We didn’t even have monks or teachers to educate us.” Somjit is among the ethnic minorities on DoiTung, whose population of about 11,000 people consists of various tribes including Akha, Lahu, Tai Lue and Lawa. They also share the hills withethnic Shan people and Chinese descendants of the 93rd Division of the Kuomintang’s Nationalist Army who fled from Yunnan in southwestern China into Myanmar in the mid-20th century.Today, Mount DoiTung is home to a thriving economic forest. Ethnic minorities grow perennial trees whose yields command high market demands and can be turned into various products. One of them is coffee.Coffee plantations cover an area of 15 square kilometres. There are 3.5 million coffee trees on DoiTung which provide a stable source of income for nearly 900 families. Currently, almost half of DoiTung’s population is in coffee farming, including Somjit.“Growing coffee is great because we don’t need to grow it every year, unlike other plants. We just need to plant it once and can harvest it for many years,” he said, adding he earns at least US320 every month. For the likes of Somjit, coffee farming offers a bright and secure future. But like any business, it is not without challenges. For the people of DoiTung, it is making sure that what they have built will be maintained and developed further by younger generations. “They were born with everything, with very good infrastructure, very good education and forests. They didn’t have to endure the sufferings their parents or grandparents had to go through,” Visitorn said. “So the new challenge is how we can make the younger generations realise the value of the good things they already have.” The answer, she added, is to spark the youths’ interest in entrepreneurship as a means of economic self-development while reminding them of what it takes to transform DoiTung into a land of economic opportunities. “They can become entrepreneurs by building upon what their parents and grandparents have created,” Visitorn said. “A good future is there. You already have a good background. So build upon it.” Coffee is a product of our “economic forests” that promotes a sustainable coexistence between man and forest, creates jobs and a variety of occupations, as well as a stable income through the development of the entire production cycle, from cultivation, nurturing and processing to the café itself. DoiTung coffee is an Arabica species that comes originally from three varieties: Catimor, Caturra, and Catuai. This results in a fragrant coffee that has a unique well-balanced taste. The care and devotion given to the production process, from cultivation, care and harvest to the processing of DoiTung coffee ensure that consumers get a quality product. DoiTung coffee has allowed communities to coexist with forests in a mutually beneficial and sustainable manner because coffee plants grown under the shade of forest trees yield quality coffee beans, so farmers become protective of forests, forests that provide a long-term stable income, from coffee trees to value-added processing and the development of the entire value cycle. DoiTung coffee products include both roast coffee and drip coffee. They are available at Café DoiTung, DoiTung Lifestyle stores and leading department stores. Most recently, Japan’s leading quality brand MUJI selected DoiTung coffee for its own cafés due to its quality, and a desire to support Thai farmers to have a sustainable quality lifestyle In 2006, DoiTung coffee received Geographical Indication (GI) certification for its quality coffee beans grown on DoiTung. This reinforces consumer confidence, provides an overview of the production process, and also guarantees that DoiTung Coffee will remain the property of the DoiTung community forever. 3. Coffee plantations cover an area of 15 km2. There are 3.5 million coffee trees on DoiTung. Almost half of DoiTung's population is in coffee farming, providing a stable source of income for nearly 900 families. DoiTung (Thac Baugs, doiTung) is a mountain in northern Thailand considered one of the main tourist attractions in Chiang Rai province and is known for its beautiful garden, tea and coffee plantations Coffee and Handicrafts: DoiTung is renowned for its high-quality Arabica coffee and unique handicrafts, including textiles and pottery, produced by local artisans Cafe DoiTung. This popular café offers a scenic view of the surrounding landscape and serves coffee and snacks made from locally sourced ingredients Local Flavors: Try the local coffee and Thai dishes at Café DoiTung. The area also offers a range of Thai and mamal cuisine Hydration: Stay hydrated, especially after long walks. Carry a refillable water bottle Coffee grown in DoiTung is famous among Thais because it is grown using sustainable farming practices, is of high quality, is grown in the cool climate of the mountains, and is grown using natural fertilizers. Additionally, the DoiTung Development Project has helped to create a local market for the coffee, making it more accessible and affordable for Thai consumers You can buy coffee beans on their website at https://shop. doitung.com/en/ There you can also purchase delicious macadamia chocolate-nut spreads and clothes made by the hands of local artisans from hand-woven fabrics Products produced in DoiTung include coffee, macadamia nuts, tea, honey, and handicrafts. The DoiTung Development Project has also helped to create a variety of other products such as herbal medicines, textiles, and processed food items 4. This program was established in 1989 with the aim of eradicating drugs from a mountainous region of northern Thailand near the border with Myanmar. The project is coordinated by the Mae Fa Luang Foundation, which was established by the late Princess Mother. We are participating in this project as a shareholder (currently 25%) in the project company, and as a provider of finance for the activities. The aim of the project is to eliminate poverty and help residents to become self-sufficient by introducing cash crops, such as coffee and macadamia nuts, as an alternative to drug growing. Today residents are engaged in an expanding range of activities, from the roasting and selling of coffee beans to the running of coffee shops and the manufacture and sale of apparel and craft goods. 5. The project aimed to improve the quality of life of the villagers, with an emphasis on self-sufficiency and sustainability. The first step comprised the provision of public amenities and health care to alleviate hunger in the local communities. Members of the development staff were also sent into the field to conduct surveys of the villages to evaluate their problems firsthand. Soon after, the local communities in DoiTung were able to cultivate economic crops, namely coffee and macadamia nuts. The subsequent phase targeted environmental restoration and the promotion of livelihoods suitable to the geo-social conditions in order to foster knowledge among the local communities and create sustainable incomes. The success of the project led to the creation of the DoiTung brand in 2000, allowing it to be completely self-reliant. Part of the proceeds from the social enterprise are reverted to the villagers themselves and used to further improve the public health, education and environment of the area. Despite the vast resources that were poured into the project, the DoiTung Development Project was far from an overnight success. The initial phase alone covered several months of data collection and communication with the locals. Time was needed to build up imperative infrastructure as well as trust with the local communities. Moreover, the project overseers understood that merely dumping resources into the area would not be enough to create a sustainable solution for the villagers to escape the cycle of poverty. Thus, they worked to ensure that the villagers were able to create their own income and that the promoted livelihoods were translated intergenerationally. For instance, the project began incorporating Thai language lessons into the curriculum for ethnic children in the area in 2016 to help overcome communication challenges. The DoiTung Development Project has had a transformative impact on the area, especially among ethnic minority groups. The average household income rose 20-fold, from 802 in 1988 to 19,200 in 2018. Opium cultivation was eliminated entirely and health care continues to be provided for all. A total of 99 per cent of 7-15 years old have been enrolled in formal education as of 2018. Moreover, the project’s forest management and forest fire prevention rule restored the total forest area from 28.0 to 86.8 per cent. The DoiTung brand continues to be successful and self-sustainable, using 30 per cent of its expenditure to employ over 1,700 staff and 9 per cent of its profit to invest in scholarships and social enterprises. The DoiTung residents are currently in the last development phase of “sustainability,” where great emphasis is placed on the education of youth. As noted, the project recently began including Thai language lessons in the curriculum for ethnic children; this is part of an effort to reduce the number of illiterate children and enhance human capital. The DoiTung Development Project currently serves as a model for sustainable development, environmental management, minority rights and social entrepreneurship. It shows the value of investing in young people (including through education and skills development), building trust and developing sustainable employment opportunities in communities. Furthermore, its success has prompted numerous projects under the Mae Fah Luang Foundation, including the Hall of Opium and Golden Triangle Park. The model has also been replicated outside of Thailand. For instance, Antonio Maria Costa, a veteran of UNODC, was inspired by the accomplishments of the DoiTung Development Project and went on to create the Africa Educational Fund. Furthermore, Colombia has enlisted the consultancy of the Mae Fah Luang Foundation in its efforts to combat rampant drug production and promote sustainable development. 6. Mr. Kittiphong Sansomboon, Director of Customer Marketing Department, Thai Airways International Public Company Limited (THAI), M.L. Dispanadda Diskul, Chief Executive Officer, Mae Fah Luang Foundation under the Royal Patronage (MFLF), announced the partnership between THAI and DoiTung Development Project to introduce a sustainably produced Black Silk Blend premium drip coffee onboard THAI’s Royal First and Royal Silk Classes. Mr. Suvadhana Sibunruang, Acting THAI CEO, THAI and MFLF executives were also present as guests of honour. THAI passengers traveling on the Royal First and Royal Silk classes en route to European, Australian, Japanese, and Korean destinations will be able to enjoy The Black Silk Blend premium drip coffee, a unique extract created by DoiTung Development Project and especially produced for THAI, which is a part of its ambition to fulfill the Corporate mission: Customer Centric. Its taste and aroma will engage the six senses; sight, taste, smell, touch, and heartfelt feelings, of passengers in the “Magically Smooth” experiences at over 30,000 feet altitudes. This partnership helps generate local employment, circular economy, and sustainable community development as the coffee was grown by local farmers on the hills at 1,200 meters above sea level. Coffee beans are finely selected prior to entering sustainable roasting process by DoiTung. The introduction of this authentic and aromatic Black Silk Blend premium drip coffee aims to further enhance passengers smooth as silk flying experience and a world class inflight services with THAI. Furthermore, THAI offers Barista On-board services serving passengers with various coffee menu by trained cabin crew. 7. Macadamia is another product from the “economic forests” that promote the sustainable coexistence between man and forest. Not only does it provide an income for the community, macadamia also encourages villagers to learn the skills of nurturing plants that require particular care. Macadamia can be processed into a variety of products that provide value-added such as flavoured roast macadamia, macadamia spread, cookies and other bakery items as well as macadamia honey which is a by-product of bee-keeping for pollination purposes. All of this reflects the organic production process of macadamia. 1 After taking off in the 1970s, the coffee exporting industry in Thailand became well-known for organic roasts and sustainable practices that are in high demand within the global coffee market. The two types of coffee grown in Thailand are Arabica and Robusta. Arabica coffee is grown in northern Thailand, while Robusta coffee is grown in the provinces of Ranong and Chumphon. Coffee production thrives in cooler climates in areas such as Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, and Mae Hong Son. Arabica coffee supports rural communities and contributes to forest preservation, making it the more sustainable bean in the coffee industry of Thailand. For Coffee Day, Thailand Insider has compiled a list of 4 Thai coffee companies that you need to try when traveling to Thailand. Let’s take a look at some of the country’s finest liquid gold! As a titan of the coffee industry, Choojai Coffee is owned by a young Thai man who roasts some of Thailand’s most aromatic coffee. In Chiang Mai, there is a market known as Jing Jai Market, a weekend market where visitors can find organic fruits and vegetables, handicrafts, and more food and beverages. Every weekend at Jing Jai Market, Choojai Coffee will set up his stand to roast coffee and serve people from all over the country who visit to watch him roast and try his delicious beans. When visiting his coffee stand, you can try his product and buy as much as your coffee-loving heart desires! Walden Home Cafe For a quieter atmosphere to relax with a good book and a hot cup of coffee, head to Walden Home Cafe in the Khlong San neighborhood of Bangkok. This charming coffee shop serves signature chocolate and matcha lattes, a fine americano, and gorgeous latte art. Head to the second floor, where you’ll find lines of shelves with collections of books to choose from that will complement your cup of coffee perfectly. Smokey Cat Coffee Roaster Near the famous Somerset Park on Suan Phlu is a cat-loving, coffee-roasting spot known for its high-quality coffee and cool coffeehouse vibes. Floor-to-ceiling windows open up to a flood of natural light in this Bangkok roastery. Smokey Cat Coffee Roaster serves the classics along with special blends such as the caramel and vanilla-flavored Honduras Litchilian. If you’re a more adventurous coffee-drinker, try the Creme Brûlée Coffee or an espresso tonic. For those with a sweet tooth, order the Smokey Cat Croffle, a combination of a croissant and waffle! Black Ivory Coffee at Anantara Golden Triangle Elephant Camp Resort We saved the rarest yet most exquisite coffee for last: Black Ivory Coffee! This type of coffee is quite expensive in Thailand, and for a good reason. The Thai Arabica beans are digested by the elephants of Anantara Golden Triangle Elephant Camp Resort, giving the beans less bitterness before they are deposited, handpicked, and sun-dried. The beans at this resort are ground by hand and brewed in a high-tech machine that gives the coffee a clean and flavorful taste. Each sale of Black Ivory Coffee helps the wonderful elephants of Thailand, with 8% of sales donated to the Golden Triangle Asian Elephant Foundation! Try A Cup of Thai Coffee When in Thailand! If you love coffee and want to try some of Thailand’s most delicious and flavorful beans, head to one (or more!) of these 4 Thai coffee companies! Northern Thailand is well-known for its beans due to the cooler climates and sustainable practices, so don’t forget to visit the north when in Thailand! 2. Today, the Thai coffee industry is experiencing significant growth, with coffee production increasing by an average of 10% annually. The northern region of the country is the main coffee-producing area, with the provinces of Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, and Mae Hong Son accounting for the majority of coffee production. The Thailand coffee production statistics are impressive. According to the Thai Coffee Association, the country produced 120,000 metric tons of coffee in 2020, a 22% increase from the previous year. Furthermore, the majority of coffee produced in Thailand is specialty coffee, which commands a higher price in the global market. Today, Thailand is a significant player in the global coffee market. According to the International Coffee Organization, Thailand produces around 28,000 metric tons of coffee per year, making it the 22nd largest coffee producer in the world. Here is some other interesting Thailand’s Coffee Production Statistics Unveiled: The majority of coffee production in Thailand takes place in the northern part of the country, with the provinces of Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, and Mae Hong Son being the top coffee-producing regions. Arabica coffee is the most commonly grown coffee variety in Thailand, accounting for around 80% of the country’s coffee production. The average yield per hectare of coffee in Thailand is around 700-800 kg per year, which is relatively low compared to other coffee-producing countries. Thailand’s coffee production has been on the rise in recent years, with significant growth since 2010. In 2010, Thailand produced approximately 12,000 metric tons of coffee, while in 2020, it produced around 32,000 metric tons. This represents a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 10.4% over the past decade. The main coffee-growing regions in Thailand are in the North and South of the country. The Northern regions of Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, Mae Hong Son, and Tak account for approximately 70% of the country’s coffee production. In the South, the provinces of Chumphon, Surat Thani, and Nakhon Si Thammarat are the main coffee-growing regions. Thailand produces mainly Arabica and Robusta coffee varieties. Arabica coffee is grown at higher altitudes and is generally considered to have a more complex flavor profile. Robusta coffee, on the other hand, is grown at lower altitudes and is known for its stronger, more bitter taste. In terms of coffee exports, Japan is the largest market for Thai coffee, followed by the United States, Italy, and South Korea. Thai coffee has gained popularity in Japan due to its unique flavor profile and its reputation for quality. The United States is also a significant market, with demand increasing for specialty coffee. Overall, Thailand’s Coffee Production Statistics Unveiled show that the Thai coffee industry is growing and gaining recognition in the international market. With initiatives to support the industry and a focus on sustainability and fair trade practices, the future looks promising for Thailand’s coffee production. Despite its many strengths, the Thai coffee industry is not without its challenges. One of the biggest issues facing Thai coffee farmers is climate change. In recent years, Thailand has experienced more frequent and severe weather events, including droughts, floods, and landslides. These weather events can damage coffee crops and make it difficult for farmers. While Thailand has long been a producer of coffee, it is only in recent years that the country has started to gain recognition for its specialty coffee. Specialty coffee refers to coffee that is grown and processed with exceptional care and attention to detail, resulting in a unique and high-quality product. Today, there are a growing number of specialty coffee shops and roasters in Thailand that are dedicated to showcasing the country’s best coffee. These businesses often work directly with small-scale coffee farmers to source their beans, helping to support local communities and promote sustainable farming practices. Several factors have contributed to the growth of the Thai coffee industry: Favorable Climate: Thailand’s tropical climate provides ideal conditions for growing coffee, with ample rainfall and a consistent temperature range of 20-30°C. Geographical Diversity: The country’s diverse geography, with high mountains, plateaus, and lowlands, provides a range of altitudes and microclimates that are suitable for growing different varieties of coffee. Increased Investment: In recent years, there has been a surge in investment in the Thai coffee industry, with both local and foreign investors recognizing the potential of the industry. Growing Demand for Specialty Coffee: With the increasing popularity of specialty coffee, Thai coffee growers have been able to command higher prices for their high-quality beans. As with many agricultural industries, coffee farming in Thailand can be challenging and often involves long hours and hard work. However, there are initiatives underway to support sustainable coffee farming in the country. One such initiative is the Royal Project Foundation, which was established in 1969 to promote sustainable agriculture in Thailand. The Foundation works with local communities to develop sustainable farming practices and supports farmers in growing a range of crops, including coffee. By promoting sustainable farming practices, the Foundation aims to help farmers increase their income while preserving the environment. Q: What is the most common type of coffee grown in Thailand? A: Arabica coffee is the most commonly grown coffee variety in Thailand, accounting for around 80% of the country’s coffee production. Q: What makes Thai coffee unique? A: Thai coffee is known for its sweet, nutty taste and low acidity, which is partly due to the way the beans are processed using the wet method. Q: What are some of the challenges facing the Thai coffee industry? A: Climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing the industry, as well as low yields and competition from other coffee-producing countries. In conclusion, the Thai coffee industry is a fascinating and complex industry that is deeply rooted in the country’s history and culture. While the industry faces its fair share of challenges, including climate change and low yields, there is also much to be celebrated about the industry. From the unique flavor of Thai coffee to the growing specialty coffee scene, Thailand has much to offer coffee lovers around the world. By supporting sustainable coffee farming practices and promoting local businesses, we can help ensure that the Thai coffee industry continues to thrive for years to come. 3. Thailand mainly produces RobustaAteng coffee Ateng is a common name for Catimor coffees widely planted in Sumatra and other Indonesia isles.: Ateng, with several subtypes, is a common name for Catimor coffees widely… …more coffee but Arabica Arabica refers to Coffea Arabica, the taxonomic species name of the genus responsible for around 75% of the worlds commercial coffee crop.: Arabica refers to Coffea Arabica, the… …more coffee farming has been on the rise. According to FAO statistics for 2013, coffee production was 50,000 tons grown on 51,000 hectares We use this metric term often to discuss the size of coffee farms. 1 Hectare = 10000 Square Meters = 2.471 acres: We use this metric term often. Yield was 980 kilograms per hectare, which placed it at 18th in the world rankings. More recently it’s total production has ranked about 25th, but drops to 56th when assessing only Arabica coffee output. We lack much first hand experience with Thai coffee that we can share. We have cupped samples over the years, mainly from Chiang Mai district in the north, and see improvements in quality of the arabica coffees. They are mild generally, featuring good body Associated with and sensed by mouthfeel, body is sense of weight and thickness of the brew, caused by the percentage of soluble solids in the cup, including all… …more and moderate to low acidityacidity scale Acidity is a positive flavor attribute in coffee, also referred to as brightness or liveliness. It adds a brilliance to the cup, whereas low acid coffees can seem… …more Thailand is a relative late-comer to coffee production. In the 1970s King Bhumibol Adulyadej launched a series of coffee projects in the north to help local communities grow cash crops like coffee as an alternative to growing opium poppies.Thailand became an exporter of coffee in 1976. In general, Arabica beans are grown in northern Thailand and robusta Robusta usually refers to Coffea Robusta, responsible for roughly 25% of the world’s commercial coffee. Taxonomy of Robusta is debated: some sources use “Robusta” to refer to any… …more beans in the south. Arabica regions are Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, Lampang, Mae Hong Son, and Tak. Robusta coffee (Coffeacoffea arabica The botanical genus colloquially referred to as the “coffea genus,” which is comprised of over 120 individual species. These are generally opposite-leaved, evergreen shrubs or small understory trees… …more canephora) is grown chiefly in the provinces of Chumphon, Surat Thani, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Krabi, Phang Nga, and Ranong. Coffee is cultivated on 67,832 hectares. Coffee production in the southern part of the country is 80,000 tons of robusta coffee. One-quarter of the robusta coffee is for domestic consumption in the form of soluble, roasted, powdered, and tinned coffee. About 500 tons of Arabica coffee is grown in northern Thailand. Coffee production in the northern border region with Burma and Laos, known as the (Golden Triangle). Arabica coffee is a good variety A botanical variety is a rank in the taxonomic hierarchy below the rank of species and subspecies and above the rank of form (form / variety / subspecies… …more as its yield is profitable to all categories of farmers, including the hill people. Organic Grown without the use of artificial fertilizers, herbicides, etc.: Organic coffee has been grown according to organic farming techniques, typically without the use of artificial fertilizers. Some farms… …more coffee is considered suitable for cultivation in the highlands with an elevation range of 800 metres (2,600 ft) to 1,200 metres (3,900 ft). Coffee is grown both in shaded areas and in open areas in full sun. Intercropping is also practised in hill areas along with fruit trees. The largest farm is Doi Chaang, and a newer company called Beanspire is producing some nice quality arabica coffee. 4. Thailand (formerly Siam) is one of the top 25 coffee producers in the world as of 2014, but its status as a coffee origin has not been widely known.[1] Thailand traditionally produced mainly Robusta for industrial use, but the country has quickly become an exciting emerging origin for specialty Arabica and fine Robusta coffees. The origin is unique in that it exports very little coffee and most of the consumption remains in the country. There is a booming specialty coffee ecosystem where farmers, roasters, cafes and consumers symbiotically co-exist. [2] It is often seen as an example of a working coffee ecosystem for an origin where coffee produced is sustainable from both economic and environmental perspectives Thailand is a relative late-comer to coffee production. In the 1970s King Bhumibol Adulyadej launched a series of coffee projects in the north to help local communities grow cash crops like coffee as an alternative to growing opium poppies. Thailand became an exporter of coffee in 1976.[3] Robusta coffee (Coffea canephora) is grown chiefly in the provinces of Chumphon, Surat Thani, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Krabi, Phang Nga, and Ranong. Coffee is cultivated on 67,832 hectares.[4] Coffee production in the southern part of the country is 80,000 tons of robusta coffee. One-quarter of the robusta coffee is for domestic consumption in the form of soluble, roasted, powdered, and tinned coffee.[4 According to Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) statistics for 2013, coffee production was 50,000 tons grown on 51,000 hectares. Yield was 980 kilograms per hectare, which placed it at 18th in the world rankings.[5] In 2015, two types of coffee, DoiTung and Doi Chang, received protected designation of origin (PDO) status from the European Union. The designation is comparable to those bestowed on "Champagne", "Parma ham", or "Bordeaux".[6] Currently, about 10,000 tons of Arabica and roughly 30,000 tons of Robusta are grown in northern Thailand. Coffee production in the northern border region with Burma and Laos, known as the (Golden Triangle). Arabica coffee is a good variety as its yield is profitable to all categories of farmers, including the hill people.[4] Organic coffee is considered suitable for cultivation in the highlands with an elevation range of 800 metres (2,600 ft) to 1,200 metres (3,900 ft). Coffee is grown both in shaded areas and in open areas in full sun. Intercropping is also practised in hill areas along with fruit trees.[4] Thailand's import tariffs for coffee are the second highest in the world, making it a pricey endeavor for coffee shops to feature beans from abroad. It is more likely to find a Brazil, Colombia or Ethiopia in a blend together with Thai coffee rather than as a single origin.[7].DoiTung drip coffee is not an instant coffee in tea bags. It is freshly ground coffee using high quality coffee beans. DoiTung drip coffee is individually packaged and can easily fit for your purse.DoiTung coffee is single origin Arabica grown in the forest shade in DoiTung in Chiang Rai province. With the work of the DoiTung Development Project, highland minorities who once relied on opium for survival now grow and care for the coffee trees, endowing them with a sense of ownership and providing them with a legitimate source of income and sustainable livelihood. Enjoying DoiTung coffee helps support the DoiTung communities’ self-reliance, and allows them to live in harmony with nature. DoiTung Arabica is a single origin coffee, grown under the shade of verdant forests in the heart of Golden Triangle. With the work of the DoiTung Development Project, highland minorities who once relied on opium for survival now grow and care for the coffee trees, endowing them with a sense of ownership and providing them with a legitimate source of income and sustainable livelihood. At DoiTung, coffee is the passion, every step of process is devoted to excellence. Ripened cherries and handpicked with care, proce3ssed and sun-dried into premium quality green beans. The skillful roast master delicately brings to life the unique natural caramel and fruity-sweet character of the beans. The complete process from trees to cups ensures the high quality and the freshness of DoiTung roasted coffee. DoiTung Single Origin Shade Grown Arabic Coffee - Espresso Roast Ground Coffee has mixed customer reactions. Some customers have reported that the product has a very pleasant and long-lasting aroma, while others have reported disappointment with the smell, stating that it smells like a mix of bat cave and over-used cat litter. However, according to genuine customers, they enjoy the suave aroma that lingers for approximately 6-8 hours. The product is said to be worth the money but is not everybody's cup of tea.famous for coffee plantation.A quick look at the Doitung drip coffee pouch. I like this one-time style drip coffee pouches because you don't need any special equipment; just hot water.The coffee gives a good kick. It's probably the strongest drip coffee I've consumed.strong flavoured coffee.very strong taste.good smell.Excellent coffee .The Royal Villa can be visited and there is a treetop walk as well as coffee museum and so much more. There are many beautiful flowers, each type has beauty. Different styles and coffee beans with a unique aroma and I like this atmosphere. If there is an opportunity, I will go back to DoiTung again. People of various hill tribes (such as Akha, Lahu, Tai Lue and Lara) live there and cultivate coffee trees. It was very interesting for us to see a hilltribe village and their coffee plantations. Coffee plantation around DoiTung is lovely and local products fresh coffee aroma is great. Surprisingly the DoiTung coffee grown here was sub par in standard. The restaurant however served very good food along with fresh seasonal vegetables. We had the prawns fried with basil and local mushrooms which was very special. Wonderful garden, with great coffee shop. excellent coffee. I have visited this coffee house on numerous occasions. The welcome is good and the locally grown and roasted coffee is first-class. Cool weather and good coffee!. High altitude, blue sky, crisp cool air, and some of the best coffee in Southeast Asia!. coffee shop. local people help themselves with vocational training with the end goal of empowering locals to become economically self reliant (rather than depending on drugs and prostitution in the Golden Zone). Coffee is grown and produced and so are macademia nuts. Added bonus: they have some of the best iced latte we had in all Asia in the concession, plus best coffee for sale. This place also has to offer very good fresh vegetable salads in their restaurants and you can also try fresh coffee Arabica varieties of the famous DoiTung. The excellent coffee is excellent quality gained through seed selection standards. he coffee is grown in the surrounding area and is excellent, and the views from the gardens are magnificent!. Macadamia nut trees were planted with coffee plants underneath in order to create high-quality, shade-grown coffee for sale. Coffee is one of the premier products of DoiTung and since it is very tasty, it’s a great way to support the people there. I’ve already written about the Café in a previous blog (you’ll need to scroll about half-way down to the relevant section). proliferation of places selling fresh-brewed coffee in Thailand. For the most part, the coffee is pressed coffee (as with “espresso”), made to order. More often than not, you’ll see the whole beans and the grinding mechanism in the same place – at many of the smaller places, the coffee is ground to order. Most of the coffee is dark-roasted; sometimes overly so. There is a lighter roast called “Blue Mountain” that is available at some places – I tend to order that when it’s available and find it much to my liking. If you’re a coffee drinker, you’ll want to memorize two words of Thai in the Thai script (spelled without an intervening space): pronounced kafae sot. กาแฟ (kafae) means “coffee” and สด (sot) means “fresh” – so “fresh coffee.” It’s probably not strictly necessary because the stands and cafes selling coffee are also recognizable by the espresso machines and the coffee beans they usually display; in addition, the signs often include a cup of coffee (as to the left). In some places, there’s a sign in English. On other occasions, knowing the script has helped me find a place I might have overlooked. Local Stands Coffee Houses I’m now finding these “fresh coffee” stands all over Thailand. In Bangkok, Chiang Mai and other larger towns, you’ll find them on the streets and in markets, often just a simple cart with the coffee grinder and a small espresso machine. The picture below shows a coffee stand found on Sukhumvit Soi 55 (Thong Lo – pronounced “tawng law”). It’s a fairly typical example. I am seeing more places where you can purchase a coffee and sit down. We visit a the Sathorn Golden Textile Museum in Sri Satchanalai (in Sukhothai province) that has this coffee stand; they have excellent “blue Mountain” coffee. This stand is found indoors amongst a number of other shops. I’m also finding more places that we would think of as a proper café – some place to buy a coffee and to sit and enjoy it. This is “Before Sunset Coffee” and is perched right on the edge of a beautiful view in the parking lot at Wat Phra That Doi Kong Mu in Mae Hong Son. “Coffee houses” are making their appearances in the neighborhoods as well. Imperial world has at least 7 or 8 non-chain coffee shops in addition to Amazon, (one of the chains). With so few westerners to be seen, Thais must be buying coffee. Even in the local fresh market there (Talat Samrong), there’s a fresh coffee stand. I do know that over the past couple of years our driver, Sun, is drinking more coffee. Coffee is one of the premier products of DoiTung and since it is very tasty, it’s a great way to support the people there. I’ve already written about the Café in a previous blog (you’ll need to scroll about half-way down to the relevant section): The coffee is delicious and the setting amongst the hills is a great place to enjoy your drink. You can also purchase two of the signature products of DoiTung: coffee, both as beans as well as individual cup drip-coffee packets; I had a latte and Kasma a mocha. It was excellent coffee and served very efficiently. Quite a relax place for a quick fix of coffee or Thai tea in a hot day. Staff with polite attitude . Price is very fair, of course if you are looking for a very good coffee, this is not a place for you. Good tasting coffee, great value. This review is for the cafe at SCB Plaza. Interesting Macadamia Latte, as I munch on the Macadamia nuts floating in the Latte. An easy laid back seating just outside the cafe, good for chatting with friends. Macadamia Coffee - the best! Went to the one in front of the Grand Palace and the macadamia coffee is just to die for. I couldn't stop thinking about it - the macadamia heaped on the whipped cream, and underneath was the delicious smelling coffee. All for a good cause, too. Awesomeeee. The cookies sold out fast too, I got the last box. Hip place for tourists and locals alike. Great for an afternoon escape from the heat and craziness of the city. Try their macadamia flavored coffees, they're pretty great. Great coffee in down town Bangkok In a world where most coffee shops in capital cities are dominated by the US big names (and which think that the bigger the coffee, the better it is - it is not), it is so pleasant to come across in Bangkok a small coffee shop chain which prides itself in making coffee in the quantity it should be made, with coffee beans from The Princess Mother's northern Thailand estate. The care that the staff put into making the coffee is exemplary. Macadamia nuts are also grown on the estate, and all the biscuits sold are macadamia nut based; the ice creams too are either macadamia, chocolate or coffee based, and are yummy. The atmosphere is calm, and there are lots of comfy chairs to recline in and sip your coffee. It's a lovely place to have a mid morning or mid afternoon coffee (or both). For this particular cafe, the coffee and Macadamia cake are so delicious. Love the Espresso!!! Finally - a fantastic coffee in Bangkok. this little cafe in Chamchuri square was clean and looked great from the outside. I ordered a double espresso. It came with fantastic crema on top. so good i had another!!! Excellent coffee nibbles, so much better than expensive western chains! I am a regular at the Chatuchak Market branch. This Thai coffee brand is worth discovering. The coffee (only harvested on the hills of DoiTung) is high quality, free from chemicals toxins, the biscuits macadamia nuts are also divine (and all natural). The DoiTung products provide a sustainable (and legal!) income for the local people and has replaced the growth of opium in these regions. So next time you feel like a good cup of coffee and a healthy snack, please give your custom money to DoiTung rather than to a Western chain who do not need it and will charge you a lot more for their expensive advertising (and won't even serve you good coffee). Vote with your feet! Good coffee, high price Good coffee, high price. Located on the second floor of UN ESCAPE building. Good to have coffee while attending in any conference in the convention hall. Great coffee Very strong coffee to beat the morning drowsiness! Stopped by here for a cuppa before heading to our Muay Thai class in Wattana. Survived 2 hours of the class thanks to the coffee Surprisingly good coffee Well, after leaving in Melbourne for more than a decade, my level of expectation from coffee is all the way up there... Yes, coffee snob, and when I travel I will lower it to avoid the disappointment. This little place located at the entrance to the crazy Chatuchak market sarves really good cappuccino and I'm glad I picked it up while in the area. Great coffee and a great cause Under royal patronage, this coffee chain is part of a larger environmental economic development program in Thailand for the benefit of rural and communities. Best thing is they serve great coffee. Very enjoyable and robust flavours. Humble and friendly service. Great coffee We had a little break or rest here from Chatuchak market. Nice staff, good service and excellent coffee. Very good coffee We ordered an ice coffee to takeaway. The coffee is really nice with good aroma taste, not very sweet. Nice coffee shop I didn't stay here but enjoyed the coffee shop. My cappuccino was made from Thai coffee beans - from Dai Tung - which I thought was good and was very comparable to the more popular ones. Sitting inside is nice and away from the hustle and bustle but even outside was good watching things going on in Soi 4. The staff were very friendly and it had a relaxed feel. Very good value for money too as my coffee I think was only 60 Baht. Looks like just a coffee shop, but with a very pleasant staff, good elevator, good security, great coffee, some food available, A quiet unassuming hotel above a coffee shop/ restaurant. Lovely modern rooms well serviced by elevator. Out front is a great place to sit and watch the world go by with a great coffee. The coffee and food is great . Very good coffee We ordered an ice coffee to takeaway. The coffee is really nice with good aroma taste, not very sweet Love the Espresso!!! Finally - a fantastic coffee in Bangkok. Excellent coffee nibbles, so much better than expensive western chains! I am a regular at the Chatuchak Market branch. This Thai coffee brand is worth discovering. The coffee (only harvested on the hills of DoiTung) is high quality, free from chemicals toxins, the biscuits macadamia nuts are also divine (and all natural). The DoiTung products provide a sustainable (and legal!) income for the local people and has replaced the growth of opium in these regions. So next time you feel like a good cup of coffee and a healthy snack, I heard that it was a franchise cafe representing Bangkok, so I went there. It was nice and cool on a hot day. I think the coffee taste is just average. tasty coffee. Free coffee. delicious coffee There's an DoiTung Cafe providing yummy bakery with freshly brewed DoiTung coffee. Good coffee, high price. Very strong coffee, great coffee. taste of the coffee is also delicious, Surprisingly good coffee is famous for its delicious and cheap coffee the coffee is strong and there are various types such as latte, mocha, and caramel. They have both hot and iced coffee, and in addition to coffee, they also have milk tea and preppe. quite pleasant coffee. Best thing is they serve great coffee. Nice staff, good service and excellent coffee. DoiTung Arabica is a single origin coffee, grown under the shade of verdant forests in the heart of the Golden Triangle. With the work of the DoiTung Development Project, highland minorities who once relied on opium for survival now grow and care for the coffee trees, endowing them with a sense of ownership and providing them with a legitimate source of income and sustainable livelihood. At DoiTung, coffee is our passion; every step of the process is devoted to excellence. Ripened cherries are handpicked with care, processed and sun-dried into premium quality green beans. Our skillful roast master delicately brings to life the unique natural caramel and fruity-sweet character of our beans. The complete process from trees to cups ensures the high quality and the freshness of DoiTung roasted coffee. DoiTung Drip Coffee is also good to drink with cream and sugar. The DoiTung cost 180฿ for 6 pour over coffees (for you math nerds out there that is 30฿ per cup of coffee – coffee math). DoiTung instructs you to use 120ml to brew your coffee, which is a small cup, I usually brew around 380ml for my morning cup – which would be three of DoiTung’s drip coffees or 90฿ – coffee math!). The sachet holds 10g of coffee, meaning we are brewing at a 12:1 ratio (for every gram of coffee you put 12ml of water). This 12:1 ratio is actually quite high, meaning a lot of coffee, because most pros suggest a 15-17:1 ratio for pour overs. DoiTung instructed to pour some hot water on the coffee grounds to soak them and let the coffee “bloom” for 20-30 seconds. The first sips of the DoiTung drip coffee were rather bright and acidic. The roast level is not indicated on the packaging but I would say this was a lighter roast due to the acidic play on my tongue. A nice aroma and clean mouth feel both enhanced this choice over ANY instant coffee. I really enjoyed this coffee because I usually brew dark roasts and it was fun to have something a little different without having to buy an entire bag of it.The DoiTung Development Project has transformed a community from its dependence on opium cultivation and trafficking into a community that possesses pride and dignity, transformed illicit livelihoods into honest and stable incomes, and transformed denuded mountains into green forests. DoiTung is located in the centre of the Golden Triangle, which in the past was a leading centre for the production and trafficking of illicit drugs of the world. The region was made up of denuded mountains, with forests having been destroyed by slash and burn cultivation. Most villagers in the area were stateless, lived in dire poverty without any basic public amenities, and were uneducated. Furthermore, the presence of armed militia in the area reduced the safe economic possibilities available to local populations, with resulting deforestation, opium poppy cultivation, drug and sex trafficking proliferating. The DoiTung Development Project therefore took a people-centric development approach and instituted comprehensive measures that covered health, livelihoods, and education. It also encouraged “a mutual and sustainable coexistence between man and forest.” The DoiTung Development Project has helped to improve the well-being of the people, provide life skills training and create a stable income for every member of the community through five business units: food processing, handicrafts, cafés, tourism and agriculture. It has provided an opportunity for the people of DoiTung to create products and services for the world with a sense of pride, becoming a true model for sustainable development. DTDP Thirty years after the launch of the DoiTung Development Project (DTDP), the region is now regarded as one of the world’s best examples of sustainable development, attracting more than a million tourists each year. The DTDP transformed this secluded and barren area into a place where people and nature can co-exist and prosper together. The project created a win-win blue ocean solution for both local communities and the environment around them. How did the DTDP achieve this when so many other development projects of the kind have failed despite careful planning and generous funding? The DoiTung Development Project adopted three crucial elements of humanness. Since 2016, DTDP has placed more emphasis on Thai language lessons into the curriculum for ethnic children in the project area in line with the concern of Her Royal Highness Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn for the local youth, and the aim to reduce the number of those unable to read and write Thai to zero. Today, several of these young children have completed their studies and returned to work in different capacities at DTDP, carrying on the development legacy within their communities effectively. If you look at DoiTung in Chiang Rai from a bird’s eye view today, you would see that the seeds of inspiration sown by the Princess Mother have taken root and matured into lush green forest cover as far as the eye can see. Under the shady canopy of this forest cover is the much-improved and sustainable way of life of the local villagers. The DTDP was successful because it practiced humanness, which helped create trust, win over the local people and motivate them to participate in the project. An essential element in this process is what Chan Kim and Renee Mauborgne call ‘atomization’ – breaking down a big task into smaller tasks that seem easier to achieve. For example, the project team broke down the DTDP into smaller tasks such as re-planting trees, attending skills training, and setting up cash-crop and handicraft businesses. The project team even atomized the building of partnerships with external entities (over 50) for each different task. Through atomization, local communities were able to meet objectives that would otherwise seem daunting if not impossible. The late Princess Mother also built a royal residence within the DoiTung community and lived there with the people. This symbolic statement gave hope and inspiration to the local people while signaling to the public agencies and corporate players the importance of the DTDP. Just as importantly, it enabled her to see the project through first-hand discovery – another essential element of humanness. By living in DoiTung and experiencing the challenges faced by the local people, she was able to gather new insights and develop creative solutions. The project team also got the buy-in of people by practicing fair process, the third crucial element of humanness. Fair process is about engaging people in decisions, explaining why decisions are made and setting clear expectations about what needs to be done by whom. The importance of this for any transformation effort cannot be overstated. In the case of the DoiTung Development Project, the project team regularly engaged local community members and explained that all the business ownership and operational management would be gradually transferred to them. They set clear expectations on how the local communities would take over ownership of the project. This motivated community members and partners who went on to make DoiTung an astounding success. Sustainability and replicability DoiTung community is now self-reliant, resilient and thrivable. They have diverse livelihood opportunities, decent work with dignity and pride. The DTDP now serves as a ‘Living University’ for sustainable development, environmental management, minority rights, and social entrepreneurship with around 900 study visits and trainings happen annually. Furthermore, the MFLF is driving international policy dialogues in multiple platforms. Applying the expertise from the DTDP, the MFLF led the process of drafting the UN Guiding Principle on Alternative Development as a guideline to implement a sustainable alternative livelihood development worldwide. The DoiTung story has been presented at UN HLPF in NY in 2019. Since 2002, the MFLF has been requested to implement development projects in Myanmar, Afghanistan and Indonesia. Since 2013, the MFLF has been providing consultancy service to Colombia and Peru goverments through a partnership with the German International Cooperation Agency (GIZ). The DoiTung Development Project transforms marginalized communities in Thailand by providing basic social services, capacity building and livelihood training to communities. The aim is to have these communities pursue social enterprises to reach self-sufficiency and environmental sustainability. The DoiTung residents are currently in the last significant phase of development which will lead towards “Sustainability”. DTDP has put great emphasis on the education of children and youth, instilling in them a quest for lifelong learning, encouraging them to reach their full potential. The Montessori method of teaching is applied to primary school children, allowing them to learn by doing, known as Constructionism, with a multi-faceted learning process that goes all the way through to high school. This includes Task-Based Learning, Project-Based Learning, and Vocational Learning that meet real-life requirements. This will enable local children to be in tune with the fast-moving world outside, building up their immunity against external threats, empowering young leaders who will be able to take charge of their own community’s development projects in the future in a sustainable manner. Over 30 years ago, if you had a bird’s eye view over high mountain peaks in Mae Chan District, Chiang Rai Province, you would see nothing but the red earth of denuded hillsides as far as the eye could see, with only a few isolated spots of green. DoiTung in the past was a land where villagers had no contact with infrastructure or agricultural know-how. Their lives were dire, and they were destined to a vicious cycle of problems that led to a dependence on illicit livelihoods—narcotic crop cultivation and trafficking for ethnic militia groups that came to their doorstep to buy the precious goods. Many fell victim to the drug trade and addiction, or even worse, sex trafficking, in the hope of a better life, but more often ending in tragic outcomes. The first livelihood that came hand in hand with reforestation was the cultivation of economic crops, namely coffee and macadamia. DTDP gave the villagers the right to their own coffee plants; if they tended the plants well and they yielded good crops, the villagers would also benefit. This feeling of ownership motivated them to put their effort into the crops, tending to the plants with their heart and soul. Many of them were able to become entrepreneurs, with their own flourishing coffee businesses.DoiTung coffee products include both roast coffee and drip coffee. They are available at Café DoiTung, DoiTung Lifestyle stores and leading department stores. Most recently, Japan’s leading quality brand MUJI selected DoiTung coffee for its own cafés due to its quality, and a desire to support Thai farmers to have a sustainable quality lifestyle. Overall, DoiTung Development Project of The Mae Fah Luang Foundation has taken care to preserve indigenous culture and tradition, and involve the communities in the process. DoiTung coffee products include both roast coffee and drip coffee. They are available at Café DoiTung, DoiTung Lifestyle stores and leading department stores. Most recently, Japan’s leading quality brand MUJI selected DoiTung coffee for its own cafés due to its quality, and a desire to support Thai farmers to have a sustainable quality lifestyle. Overall, DoiTung Development Project of The Mae Fah Luang Foundation has taken care to preserve indigenous culture and tradition, and involve the communities in the process. Forest fires have destroyed about 80 hectares of forest in the DoiTung development project, in Thailand’s northern province of Chiang Rai, and worsened the air pollution in Mae Sai district, with the level of PM2.5 dust rising to 443 microns. The fires started at about 3pm in Ban Pha Bue, one of several villages in the area of the Royally-sponsored DoiTung development project in Mae Fah Luang sub-district, and quickly spread across firebreaks due to strong winds. Officials from several local and provincial organisations, including the Pha Muang task force, and volunteers were mobilised to fight the fires, about 70% of which were brought under control before midnight. Fires are still raging in the eastern part of an economic forest area. To prevent fires from reigniting, workers built more firebreaks and water trucks were dispatched to douse accessible forest areas with water, to increase humidity, and fires were ignited in inaccessible forest areas as a fire control technique. Officials have admitted that they still do not know the cause of the forest fires yesterday adding, however, that 80 hectares of forest land in DoiTung development project, which covers 14,685 hectares, have been destroyed. Initiated by the late HRH the Princess Mother, DoiTung development project was established in 1988, aiming to transform several villages in the Golden Triangle area from their dependence on opium cultivation and trafficking into communities with stable incomes from crops, food processing, handicrafts and tourism. In Mae Sai district today (Thursday), the PM2.5 level in the atmosphere was measured at 443 microns at 6am, with average PM2.5 levels in the past 24 hours exceeding 200 microns, which is likely to increase later today. DoiTung Development Project Established in 1988, the DoiTung Development Project (DTDP) was initiated by Her Royal Highness Princess Srinagarindra and is operated by the Mae Fah Luang Foundation under Royal Patronage. The DTDP aimed to transform a community from its dependence on opium cultivation and trafficking into a community that possessed stable incomes and transformed denuded mountains into lush green forests. What do they do? Most villagers in the area lived in dire poverty without any basic public amenities and were uneducated. Furthermore, the armed militia was in the area, which resorts to deforestation, opium poppy cultivation, drug and sex trafficking for the survival of villagers. The project covers 29 villages in Chiang Rai Province in Thailand, with a total population of 11,000 people of six ethnic groups. DTDP has helped to improve the well-being of the people, provide life skills training, and create a stable income for every member of the community through five business units: food processing, handicrafts, café, tourism, and agriculture. It has provided an opportunity for the people of DoiTung to create products and services for the world with handicrafts, coffee, and macadamia plantation, tourism, and horticulture, which help them to become a true model for sustainable development. Apart from food and flowers, visitors to DoiTung can also enjoy activities, ranging from doing a tree-top walk to joining art and crafts workshops, riding a hill-tribe wooden buggy downhill or just chilling... visitors to DoiTung can also enjoy activities, ranging from doing a tree-top walk to joining art and crafts workshops, riding a hill-tribe wooden buggy downhill or just chilling out with a cup of coffee... In time, forestry workers became coffee and macadamia cultivators, who eventually moved from sim ply producing commodity crops to offering services further up the value chain, such as roasting and processing the coffee and packaging macadamia nuts. Tissue culture, horticulture, and mulberry paper, ceramics, carpets, and woven cloth industries were established to diversify the local economy and reduce the risk of depending on a single enterprise. The project went beyond simply promoting alternative crops to providing a range of alternative livelihoods that integrate local knowledge and resources with business professionalism. Economic forestry – such as planting coffee and macadamia nuts — provides income streams from the forest. Subsistence forests let people gather food and fuel within special areas. These zones provide a buffer between local people and the forest, saving the watershed area from undue encroachment. Allowing local people to take care of their forest is vital, since people will pass on the wisdom of natural preservation. The picturesque northern Thai village of Mae Kampong is only 50 kilometers from Chiang Mai City. Nestled on a hillside, 1,300 meters above sea level and surrounded by pristine forest, Mae Kampong has a cool and pleasant climate. A small stream meanders through the village. Tea trees grow alongside Arabica coffee, herbal medicines and a natural forest. These natural assets, along with northern Thai carved teak houses and a traditional lifestyle have provided the key tourism resources for Mae Kampong’s community-based tourism. The tourism experience in Mae Kampong includes walking with community guides through the forest, passing tea, coffee and herbal gardens. The guides explain how the community manages its natural resources and harnesses small-scale hydropower from the many streams in the area. The CBT offers camping on a nearby mountain reachable by a three-hour trek. Extract text from images: Why Economic Forests? Economic forests yield produce with high market demand and value, with potential for value-added through further processing, which can provide a sustained, long-term income to the local community. DoiTung in the past What DoiTung Faced in the Past? Denuded mountains Lack of basic infrastructure and amenities FID 3 armed militia in the area Lack of nationality The need to grow opium crops for survival. DoiTung is a social enterprise brand of the DoiTung Development Project that has transformed the disadvantaged into proud and skilled craftsmen, illicit earnings into legitimate livelihood, and denuded mountains into abundant forests. DoiTung handwoven textiles derive from the traditional skill of weaving that has been passed down through generations of ethnic communities. The DoiTung Development Project provides opportunities for people to utilize this skill to earn a supplementary income for their families, restoring pride and dignity for the elderly. The design artistry makes DoiTung handwoven textiles truly unique. Select natural or renewable materials which give different colors; thus, they are unique and authentic. This initiative supports the preservation of local wisdom and plants, and, at the same time, generating income and preserving the environment. Why Macadamia and Coffee? Why Macadamia Coffee? Coffee and macadamias have high economic value. and is in demand in the market Coffee and Macadamia are products with high market demand and value. It is a plant in the same family as "Ton Kor" which was the original plant of DoiTung. Belongs to the same family as Proteaceae, an indigenous species on DoiTung. Can live up to 80-100 years, and is perennially green. Create many jobs for the community from planting, harvesting to processing. Provides jobs for the local community. from planting and harvesting to processing. Can be processed in a variety of ways. Provides various processing opportunities. People and forests coexist sustainably. The green grass is back. Big and small animals return Villagers have a stable income. Society lives together happily. Navuti Company Limited is operated by the Mae Fah Luang Foundation. Established in 1989 to plant and care for economic forests in the DoiTung Development Project area. As a result, the DoiTung community has a stable income in the long term and the forest returns. Navuti is a partnership between the public and private sectors and the people, with technical know-how from the government, funding from the private sector, and implementation by the local community. 6 private companies venture in because they want to Give back to the Kingdom of Thailand by agreeing not to accept money. Start back and put all the profits generated to use. In the further development of society and communities. Six private entities invested in Navuti to repay Thai society, with no expectation of return on investments. All profits will be designated for further social and community development of DoiTung. Restoring and adjusting forest conditions Reforestation is supplemented by selective planting. Various types of forest plants that once existed or appropriate for that area, together with Allowing some of the shoulder to heal on its own. PDF’s: The DoiTung Development Project is the first and foremost holistic development project of the MFLF implementing Sustainable Alternative Livelihood Development (SALD),and developing into a social enterprise. Economic Impact. Average income/household rises 20 fold from 1988. 60% of total expenditure directly employ 1,300 local people in 2020. Profit goes back to the community development activities. Health Impact. Healthcare for all. From a largely illiterate population, 99% of 7-15 years old now enrolled in schools Job opportunities for all -elders, women, young adults and the disabled. The 6 ethnic groups carry on their traditions while adapting to the globalized context. Environmental Impact. End illicit crop cultivation The forest was revived, from 28% to 86% Stop environmental degradation Reduce wildfire cases. Thailand Voluntary Emission Reduction Programme(T-VER) encourages domestic GHG emission reduction with co-benefit projects through certifying carbon credits for the voluntary carbon market in Thailand. Economic Social Environmental 9,166 villagers in 16 communities earn USD 3.05 million from oUSD 550,000 community forest fund oUSD 2.5 million from carbon creditin 20 years period o 16 communities and neighboring areas benefits from the environmental services of the forests o Community is self-reliance with more job opportunities oDecrease PM 2.5 impact from the forest fire o In 20 years period, there will be 266,574 tCO2e accredited for carbon offset. Sustainable change before DTDP. Before 1991, DoiTung was a deforested watershed mountain area when the Princess Mother embarked on a reforestation effort for the 95,625 rai. Now 30% of the reforested area is used for growing crops such as coffee and macadamia nuts.Handicrafts, honey, mulberry paper and garments are also produced as alternative sources of income for the locals instead of opium plantation. But the price of fuels and the electricity tariff used to make these products have increased gradually as the liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) price was floated. In 2012, the DTDP paid 2.4 million baht for LPG and 7 million for its electricity bill. In early 2013, the Department of Alternative Energy Development and Efficiency (DEDE) provided 12 million baht in financial support to the DTDP to develop alternative energy sources. NURTURING SUSTAINABLE CHANGE THE DoiTung CASE (1988-2017) Executive Summary The DoiTung Development Project (DTDP), initiated in 1998 by the late Princess Mother, HRH Princess Srinagarindara, is the flagship project of the Mae Fah Luang Foundation (MFLF). It has unfolded for 30 years in northern Thailand’s Chiang Rai province, which covers large portions of the Mae Fah Luang and Mae Sai Districts along the border between Thailand and Myanmar. The history of the DTDP is the story of human transformation. By embarking on a development approach that focused on people’s needs as the central concern, the Foundation was able to help people out of poverty while stewarding the natural environment. The ethnic minorities dwelling in the mountains were able to access viable job opportunities, education, and the chance to realize their full potential. The focus on empowering people to be at the center of their own development comes from the words and actions of the Princess Mother. Her direction is the origin of the process in DoiTung and at the core of the Mae Fah Luang Foundation’s approach to development, which operates under the motto of “helping people to help themselves”. Because the Princess Mother was able to understand that the villagers’ opium cultivation and connection with illicit activities and deforestation were symptoms of poverty and other structural problems, the DoiTung approach focused on reducing poverty and inequality by targeting the most in need first, which represents one of the most important cornerstones of the UN 2030 Global Agenda for Sustainable Development. Through working humbly alongside the inhabitants of the Nang Non Mountains in northern Chiang Rai for over thirty years, the Foundation has developed a blueprint for development that is respectful of people’s aspirations and their ability to help themselves, environmentally sustainable, and replicable. MFLF has since been able to implement this development model in other provinces and in Myanmar, Afghanistan and Indonesia. It is important to understand what happened at DoiTung and how those principles can be implemented elsewhere. The story of DoiTung is a vivid account of generations of families resisting and surviving decades of hunger, poverty, isolation, displacement, and conflict to emerge as active participants in the twenty-first century economy of modern Thailand. 1. Life in DoiTung before the DTDP The Nang Non Mountains in Thailand were the gateway to Shan State, Myanmar for centuries. The mountains have regained their lush forest cover in 30 years, much less than a lifetime for the many elders that still remember DoiTung, which means “flag mountain”, as a parched, desolate summit. Opium cultivated as a cash crop came to Northern Thailand in the aftermath of Britain’s Opium War with China (1839-1942). Minority groups like the Miao (Hmong) and Yao (Mien), originally from the Yunnan and Sichuan areas, were joined by Akha, Lahu and Liso peoples, who all made their home in the region. After the Chinese Revolution in 1949, Mao Zedong’s government moved to eliminate opium production in China, which allowed for an expansion of cultivation in Thailand and Laos. Until 1956, opium production, sale and use were legal in Thailand. It helped finance more than a third of the tax revenue of the Thai state. After becoming illegal in 1959, the ethnic minorities were able to keep cultivating opium because they lived in a remote region hard to access by the central government. There was no other crop that provided the guaranteed cash that opium did. They sold opium to local militias who controlled trafficking, transporting the sticky blocks of opium out of the region on the backs of donkeys. The hill-dwelling ethnic minorities were and are culturally and religiously distinctive. They worried about public officials, who saw them in some cases as alien and susceptible to engage in insurgency against the central government. Villagers felt threatened by police, local militias, and the milieu of criminal activities that came with drug trafficking and illegal logging. Communication with the outside world was rare. Most villagers did not speak Thai and roads were almost inexistent. Locals had no recognized citizenship rights, no formal papers such as a state identification card, and thus lacked the freedom to move around. As a result, the communities in DoiTung remained secluded, with limited livelihood options outside of the drug trade. The only governmental presence felt in DoiTung was from the Royal Forestry Department, which was engaged in reforestation work during the 1950s. Ethnic minorities traditionally engaged in slash-and-burn shifting cultivation, which led to extreme degradation of the forest, its soil and water sources, and the whole mountain ecosystem. Access to formal education was also nonexistent as was any access to the health system. Local herb doctors, who still practiced, were the only option to deal with illness and disease. This lack of assistance regarding health issues generated a high rate of mortality, especially among mothers and infants. Additionally, because of its widespread availability and its traditional use as the only pain and cough medicine, many villagers, mainly men, were hooked on opium. In this environment, life was far from easy. Poverty made families more dependent on opium and on shifting cultivation. Land use was not formalized. Rice, the basic food source, was not available year-long. Its annual harvest depended on variable weather conditions. The situation was worrying regarding children’s nutrition and stunting cases. Water for household consumption had to be fetched at the river and carried up to the villages through steep hills. Houses were precariously perched on the mountain. They were made of bamboo with grass roofs, and had no sanitation. For women, traditional patriarchal expectations regarding religious ceremonies, marriage and care of children and elders made life harder. Many men stayed at home using opium while women had to fetch water, grow rice, and clean and care for their families. Many families in DoiTung saw girls as an important commodity and drove them into prostitution, making them more vulnerable to abuse and extortion. The involvement of villagers in prostitution also brought an increase in HIV/AIDS to DoiTung. 2. Three decades of intervention The arrival of Mae Fah Luang, “Royal Mother from the Sky” The spirit and the thinking of the Princess Mother are still felt in DoiTung. Without her presence and determination, things could have been very different in the mountains. Her arrival in 1987 kicked off the development project with some of the principles that turned out to be crucial for the Project’s success: -- The fundamental principles of her thinking on the development process were: the belief in people’s goodness, potential and dignity, and therefore the necessity in providing them the opportunity to realize these fundamentals. -- Moreover, her fondness of democratic ideals, her respect for all who worked with her, her critical and rational thinking and her openness to new knowledge instilled in the project team a way of working on development: simple, practical, logical, holistic, integrated, time-sensitive and inclusive (regardless of race, religion or nationality). In 1988, the Princess Mother decided to build a home in DoiTung. She made the Royal Villa her primary residence, which brought government infrastructure and other crucial factors to the remote region. These included: -- The strong leadership needed to connect the people of DoiTung to the 35 agencies and governmental bodies her team mobilized to transform DoiTung over 30 years. -- The Royal Family’s soft power capital to put health, education and livelihoods as important priorities and fundamental blocks for the development process in DoiTung also helped transform power relations in the DoiTung area, displaced illegal activities and actors and opened possibilities for different social and economic dynamics to grow. -- The continuous presence of state officials, which aided the disarmament of the area. It also brought the rule of law to the area without the use of repressive measures. -- The development of basic infrastructure. Roads were built, electricity run through the region, and water tanks and infrastructure set up to give local inhabitants access to basic services. Proper sequencing of interventions: Survival – Sufficiency – Sustainability The development plan laid out to start the project was characteristically simple, practical, and logical. It consisted of: -- A bottom-up approach to identify the needs and problems as identified by the community. This meant there was a continuous presence of MFLF team members, learning from people and meeting with the community, as they conducted socio-economic survey of every household and ground surveys. -- A well sequenced blueprint of three phases of the development intervention: short-term survival, medium-term sufficiency and long-term sustainability. -- A flexible framework and an impact management revision process that allowed for enough trial and error space to continuously improve the development processes. Because of the extensive surveys conducted among the villagers, the MFLF team were able to clearly identify the structural issues and root causes of local hardship. They found poverty, hunger, debt, deforestation, addiction, involvement in illicit activities, prostitution, and vulnerability to abuse. Then the Foundation team sat down to sequence interventions that would maximize benefits and opportunities for local people. 1. Phase I: Survival (1988-1993) Security and Foundation HRH the late Princess Mother started with the construction of the Royal Villa as a symbolic first step. This sent a message of trust to the local people about the long-term nature of the Princess Mother’s involvement. Most initial efforts were concentrated on improving health and ensuring people had enough food for their families, so there was no need to get further indebted. With these priorities in mind, the following areas of work began: -- The Social Development Department within the project was created as a coordination mechanism with the local community. It hired villagers to work hand in hand MFL team to facilitate communication, trust and transparency. -- For the first time, roads connected all villages to the outside world. New supply systems brought drinking water to every village all year long. Electricity allowed for lighting and use of appliances, including TV and radios, which brought additional knowledge and exposure to the Thai language to villagers. There was additional security in the Project area. The Royal Forestry Department ceded responsibility to the Army to look after the area because of the presence of the Princess Mother. -- Job creation: local people were hired for three years to do reforestation, generating an income for their families. The reduction of arable land due to the reforestation efforts was compensated for with the establishment of high potential Economic Forest, a type of forest whose yields are of high value and have high value-added potential; thus generating stable income to the community. In addition, the Royal Forestry Department agreed to allow people to collect food and other non-timber products from certain areas in the forest, making legal what was a common practice. This was called the Sustenance Forest. -- Land was distributed with an eye to sustainability. The protected watershed area, the economic forest, sustenance forest, cultivation areas, and those designated for residential and infrastructure use allowed for balance between environmental protection of natural resources and income- generating activities. -- Planning for when the reforestation process would be finished and people would require other sources of income. This included training on how to grow new crops to the area such as Arabica coffee and macadamia; improving and marketing handicrafts; introducing new weaving techniques and designs; planning for an increase in tourism due to the improved infrastructure. -- The new income provided by the participation in the Project’s reforestation activities allowed families to improve their survival and nutrition. -- The Foundation provided access to health care, including treatment for drug addiction. Seven health centers for maternal care resulted in a reduction of mortality rates of women and children. -- DoiTung Development Project created a census and registered every person in each household. They delivered Project ID cards to people. These were not legally bonding but accepted by the military, police and government officials as they all participated in the survey process. This was an important change, because it provided people with a sense of security, because now the government had registered that they belonged in the area. 2. Phase II: Mid-term Sufficiency (1994-2002) Financial Sustainability The main objective of this phase was to transition to financial sustainability for the people in DoiTung, increasing per-capita income through more diverse, profitable and sustainable occupations. This could be obtained by capturing the added value of post-harvest processing through quality branding strategies. People’s wellbeing and dignity remained central to the process. There was continuous work on additional infrastructure, health and education. Telephone lines arrived in 1995; phone booths were installed in all villages, with some landlines going into households. Wireless phones arrived in 2000. Regarding health, work was concentrated on prevention and promotion as well as dealing with an increase in HIV/AIDS. Beginning 1993 there was an increase in mortality due to HIV/AIDS, particularly among the Shan people. Later, awareness and retroviral treatment arrived for HIV-affected people. There was continuous care by medical staff from the hospital. A small support group of affected people was created called The Lotus Group to consult, share coping approaches, empower one another and for a sense of community. It began with very few people and today has more than 60 members. The central and local government, the Sub-District Administrative Organization, have support programs for those affected, and also run STD prevention and protection initiatives. In terms of education, DTDP concentrated on helping students to continue studying after high school; the school curriculum was adapted towards a “learning by doing” approach, emphasizing skills and problem- solving methodologies to prepare students for the future. Four business units were established under the DoiTung brand to transition from the production of commodities to product and market-driven approaches, adding value by processing: 1. Agro-forestry, which began in Phase I. This was scaled up, with more knowledge gradually getting transferred to local farmers. A coffee roasting facility was put in place, along with DoiTung Cafes which opened throughout Thailand to provide exponential added value for local producers. The goal was to capture higher value. One kilogram of green coffee beans was worth US 1, but sold in the café a kilogram was worth US241. A macadamia processing plant was developed for similar reasons. 2. Cottage industries such as pottery, hand-woven textiles, tufted carpets and mulberry paper were developed. New designers joined the Project to work with weavers to create prêt-a-porter clothes and home textiles. 3. Horticulture, cultivating cold-weather flowers and plants for the Mae Fah Lung Garden was introduced. The Garden became a tourist destination. Plants were also sold to other customers. A plant tissue culture lab was created. 4. Tourism became viable up in the mountains, where tourists came to enjoy the relatively cool weather and change in natural landscape. Tourists visited a new restaurant, toured the Royal Villa, and took in new attractions that included the Mae Fah Luang Garden. DoiTung Lodge and other related services were added and bundled into packages. All four areas benefited from the inclusion of technology adapted to people’s skill levels, allowing for the generation of a large number of jobs. All of this was managed by local people. The Project also transferred responsibility to coffee laborers and leased the coffee trees at a symbolic price of 2 US cents. Growers were in charge of the entire process and became independent farmers. The new scheme brought a sharp improvement in quality and a three-fold increase in production. Ownership of the plant nursery was also transferred to local laborers. The Social Development Department was consolidated as a close communication channel with villagers. It worked to promote livelihood opportunities and conserve local culture and traditions; the SDD was also in close coordination with local government to support their work in the area. They were the coordinating body with public agencies involved in the DTDP. 3. Phase III: Long-term Sustainability (2003-present) Sustainability and Exit The last phase of the DTDP is focused on the sustainability of the development processes. It puts the Project in the hands of local communities in DoiTung. In practical terms, it means the transformation of the communities into the owners of their own future. Change has arrived to everyone in DoiTung, leaving no one behind. Many families have members working 6 Y abroad. They get regular income from remittances. The younger generation of DoiTung access all the rights that Thai citizenship offers. For the older generation, access to government services, including health, has been possible through a special resident “pink card.” There’s a path to full citizenship after more than ten years holding a pink card. Many older residents of DoiTung have applied for full citizenship. The formal aspects of the DoiTung Development Project are transitioning out. Local communities and institutions are ready to work for their own development, much the way any other region in the country operates. Most of the initiatives have matured to a point of profitability. Local management of each business unit guarantees local participation in future operations. Business units have been financially profitable since 2000, while the average income per capita has multiplied more than six-fold in the last 10 years within the project area from 431 US in 2006 to 2,922 US in 2016. Additionally, the need for the economic units to keep sustaining the wellbeing of the people in DoiTung while competing in the market has obliged leaders to put continuing effort into improving the added value processes. They are trying to increase productivity levels and pioneer innovative approaches. Research into new materials like natural dyes refined from indigenous plants is happening. The business units are experimenting with the use of biofuel to recycling waste material from the agro-industrial process. These efforts have reduced costs, waste, emissions, and improved product quality. Economic and market challenges, including Thailand’s recent entrance in the ASEAN Economic Community, have also created a realignment of the agriculture-related business initiatives, reevaluating the market potential and improvement of their products and enhancing innovation. DoiTung has invested in its brand, and gained the geographic indication certification which has protected the quality that makes DoiTung Coffee internationally competitive. New crops are being identified for the economic forest, such as vanilla, tea-oil and the pine trees initially used for reforestation, while assessing the improvement of native botanical diversity and wildlife in the watershed forest. The Project is also researching new added value opportunities and considering entering other promising sectors. Macadamia oil for cosmetic use would add 70% more value to the amount gleaned from harvesting just the macadamia nut. Bamboo shoots are also a promising sector that could be developed in the forest. Some of the goods and services being delivered in DoiTung like cleaning and gardening could also benefit from adding incentives for greater productivity, reducing costs and increasing income. The area has potential for all these improvements, but the balance with environmental sustainability and social development will be vital. Due to the increase in household income, many villagers have started business initiatives of their own, creating local brands of agro-industrial products that are being commercialized outside of the DoiTung area. Individuals and families have more opportunities and do not depend on specific development activities provided by the Project. They are engaging in diverse economic activities and growing other economic crops like Assam tea, Sacha inchi (Inca peanut) and bamboo to provide additional income to their family. Access to credit is available through budget allocated to villages. There is also a line of credit for cooperatives, which has served to jumpstart businesses around the production, processing and marketing of tea, bamboo, coffee and other products. The DTDP offers training to local farmers, which allows them to improve their skills and access to knowledge related to these promising sectors. Every year about one million tourists visit DoiTung. The DoiTung Tourism Business Unit has generated quite a diversified offering. There is the annual festival, the Colors of DoiTung, which offers opportunities for local people to develop local products, practice entrepreneurship and meet customers from various sectors directly. Additional restaurants and souvenir shops generate income and skills for local families. Other MFLF flagship projects in the Chiang Rai area like the Hall of Opium and the Mae Fah Luang Art and Cultural Park have helped attract more tourists to the area. Along with it, many villages and the Sub-district Administrative Organization are developing community-based tourism initiatives. This includes new initiatives connected with the forest such as trekking and home stays. During this last phase, the DTDP has focused also on improving education in partnership with the Ministry of Education. Child-centered learning, life skills development and the Princess Mother’s values are at the core of this process. New initiatives, the expansion of Montessori learning approach into all the schools in the Project area and an Open Approach to Education (based on problem solving), are being tested with promising preliminary results. Vocational training has been included in high-school curriculum. Environmental education has been integrated into the curriculum so that new generations can continue to be stewards of environmental sustainability. The DTDP has put in place a scholarship program to allow families to send children to universities across the country providing around 10 scholarships a year, covering 255 students in total, opening the way for the young people of DoiTung to be the most educated member of their family. Many responsibilities previously managed by the DTDP have been transferred to local inhabitants and government. This includes water, landslide and forest fire prevention, and participatory planning and budgeting in concert with the Sub-district Administrative Organization. Irrigation systems are maintained by villages through irrigation funds, paid by beneficiaries. Quite a few of the development volunteers of the DTDP, villagers who worked with the DTDP since the beginning, have become community leaders. They work with government officials, ensuring the natural transmission of some of the fundamental principles and processes of the DTDP to ensure the future sustainable development of the area. Future Generation of DoiTung The people of DoiTung now face the future from a very different situation than the one they lived in three decades ago. They have many reasons to feel optimistic and to believe that they can improve their situation even further, now that they left behind the times of survival and scarcity. The older generation clearly knows and has a tangible memory of the hard work and years of sustained intervention it took to get free of subsistence living dependent on illicit activities. They want to secure a better future for them and for their children, mainly through diversification and increase of income, while acknowledging the importance of a holistic perspective to life and development in DoiTung. Nevertheless, perspectives have changed for younger members of the community who have lived all their lives in a gradually improving environment, and experienced the closing gap between DoiTung and the rest of the country. They are more exposed and connected to the outside world and therefore, influenced by globalization and media, the same way the younger generation around the world are influenced. People in DoiTung are also living longer, due to improvements in health. There has a reduction in the number of children per family (2-3 is the average), and the temporary or long-term migration of many young people to study or work outside of DoiTung means that the median age of DoiTung residents is older. Because of the rising expectations, one of the keys for the next period will be the generation of enough wealth and wellbeing to fulfill the hopes of the younger generation in order to continue to attract them to opportunities on the mountain. This will come about through the consolidation of the processes to add value to local products in DoiTung, adding technology for better processing, branding, and marketing. There can also be further development of profitable sectors like tourism. Profoundly transformed the human development dynamics and restored the environment in DoiTung. Generated specific solutions and appropriate sequencing of interventions adapted to DoiTung. Incorporates strong linkages between social, income generating and environmental components. Showed that it is possible to mobilize enough public and private investment for an integrated initiative. Integrated in all three economic, social and environmental dimensions. D States the need for additional resources for sustainable development. Integrated in all three economic, social and environmental dimensions. Lifted most households out of poverty, improving their livelihood and access to food all year long. Promotes every child and women being free from violence and exploitation. Respected culture and dignity of the ethnic minority, raising the wellbeing of children, youth and elders. Focused on the most vulnerable to recover rights, access to health and education and basic income. Eliminated children and women’s vulnerability to violence, prostitution illicit economies. Allowed for universal access to primary and secondary education and paths for higher education. Empowered women to be participants of their development, promoted girls’ access to education. Allowed for universal access to primary and secondary education and paths for higher education. Empowered women to be participants of their development, promoted girls’ access to education. Treatment for opium addiction IDs allowed for free access to health care for everyone. Safe drinking water distribution and sanitation was made available in all villages. DoiTung was reforested, allowing for progressive wildlife and diversity to return. Tackles water scarcity and pollution, land degradation and drought. Innovative renewable energy systems, water treatment plants, biological pest control. Water, soil and other forest resources are managed in a sustainable way. Assured clean water access to everyone and restored soil, forest cover and watershed. Communities developed plans and mechanisms to prevent and fight fires, floods and landslides. Clean renewable agricultural and industrial production, environmental education recycling. Assured clean water access to everyone and restored soil, forest cover and watershed. Communities developed plans and mechanisms to prevent and fight fires, floods and landslides. Clean renewable agricultural and industrial production, environmental education recycling. DoiTung has developed environmentally and socially sustainable community-based tourism. DoiTung offered livelihood opportunities and multiple options “to be” and “to do” for all its inhabitants. Promote women’s economic empowerment. Youth have obtained multiple job opportunities by increased access to education and training. Income generating opportunities have allowed for people to have decent jobs and living conditions. Job, education and childcare opportunities have allowed for major incorporation of women to work. Generation of additional income for families allowed women to work close to their home and children to go to school, ending human trafficking and child labor in DT. All economic activity in DoiTung was developed to improve its people’s and forest’s wellbeing. A healthy forest has been the foundation of all economic activities developed in DoiTung. Added-value chains have been developed in DoiTung to increase productivity and stable income for people. Increased income from diverse job opportunities for all walks of life allowed families to get assets and savings, reduce debt and expand their options. The DTDP was successful in working all structural issues behind conflict, fear and violence in DoiTung. Respect for race, ethnicity and cultural diversity. Self-established village rules and equal rights regardless of ethnicity, race, gender, sexual orientation, age religion. Social, economic, civil and political rights of all are protected, promoted respected. Multi-cultural approach allowed for a peaceful and cooperative co-existence among all ethnic groups. Income generating activities and non-repressive law-enforcement displaced illicit economies. Open and inclusive political participation and transparency was assured at village and sub-district levels. Income generating activities and non-repressive law-enforcement displaced illicit economies. Open and inclusive political participation and transparency was assured at village and sub-district levels. Openness to the outside world has transformed closed ethnic societies into a more tolerant and open society. Public and private partners were mobilized and sensitized to make the long-term DTDP possible. Quality, coverage and availability of data to ensure that no one is left behind. Specific context in DoiTung required specific conditions regarding partnerships and sequencing interventions. Integrated and coordinated a wide group of public agencies, private firms and all the villagers. Household surveys, natural resource survey and other tools have provided disaggregated data for monitoring and evaluation. Articulated sustainability objectives in all the components of the project and corrected course for best results for people. The soft power of the Princess Mother helped in streamlining and allowing the project to be steady and succeed over the three decades. The environmental degradation, isolation, and precariousness of the community, as well as the lack of state presence, were not taken as difficulties but as opportunities to facilitate the needed transformation for DoiTung. Diversity has been a factor in the range of income within the DoiTung area. Some of the villages have developed their capacity to process their own coffee or tea, generating additional income; some have more villagers working abroad and sending remittances; some villages are more remote and further from the city; and in others, life is more relaxed and low key, and most families are happy having sufficient income to cover their basic needs. Inequality of income among villages has been gradually reduced from a 12:1 ratio in 1988 to a 3.4:1 ration in 2016. Because of the rising expectations, one of the keys for the next period will be the generation of enough wealth and wellbeing to fulfil the hopes of the younger generation in order to continue to attract them to opportunities on the mountain. This will come about through the consolidation of the processes to add value to local products in DoiTung, adding technology for better processing, branding, and marketing. There can also be further development of profitable sectors like tourism. DoiTung is now a “Living University” for rural development, environmental management, minority rights and social entrepreneurship. The DoiTung Living University offers capacity-building programs for development practitioners to become change agents, helping them identify real problems and needs of a community and plan to get results that benefit people. It includes training in many of the areas developed by the DTDP: water, healthcare, forest management, soil improvement, agriculture, livestock, handicraft and agro-industry. It also includes training on effective community engagement and mobilization. Initiatives have been taken to scale up and become a national reference for sustainable development. UN Agenda for 2030 is considered for parameters such as Environmental Sustainability Sufficiency Economy Philosophy based on the King’s Philosophy. Economic stability over unbridled growth. PEOPLE – Education, Health, Livelihood initiatives and success stories. Reduced poverty, increased economic opportunities, respectable citizenship measures. PLANET – Environmental and sustainable tourism, forest rehabilitation. PROSPERITY – Public private partnerships, job opportunities, technology advancement, Ratio PEACE – Social, economic, political and civil rights led to peaceful harmony. Self established villages without racism etc. PARTNERSHIP – PPP, House hold surveys, natural resource survey conducted by government, private agencies and villagers together for monitoring, evaluation and positive enhancement Reviews: Good coffee, high price Good coffee, high price. Located on the second floor of UN ESCAPE building. Good to have coffee while attending in any conference in the convention hall. Very strong coffee to beat the morning drowsiness! Stopped by here for a cuppa before heading to our Muay Thai class in Wattana. Survived 2 hours of the class thanks to the coffee Well, after leaving in Melbourne for more than a decade, my level of expectation from coffee is all the way up there... Yes, coffee snob, and when I travel I will lower it to avoid the disappointment. This little place located at the entrance to...More The DoiTung brand includes some quite pleasant coffee, and this moderate sized, airconditioned cafe next to Gate 1 in Kamphaeng Phet 2 Rd., is a welcome break from the heat outside. They do sell cakes and various "bakery" items, as well as the usual...More Under royal patronage, this coffee chain is part of a larger environmental economic development program in Thailand for the benefit of rural and communities. Best thing is they serve great coffee. Very enjoyable and robust flavours. Humble and friendly service. What a top spot for a much needed break while doing the rounds of the massive and inevitably steaming hot Chatuchak Markets. Third time we've visited here and it's like walking into a cool oasis from the desert heat. Their iced coffee is superb, they... Great coffee We had a little break or rest here from Chatuchak market. Nice staff, good service and excellent coffee. If you happen to have a chance to travel anywhere near DoiTung shop, be it the cafe, the shop, the temporary booth, do not hesitate to pay them a visit. DoiTung is the Royal Project by Princess Srinagarindra, who we Thais affectionately call "Royal Grand.. Love the Espresso!!! Finally - a fantastic coffee in Bangkok. this little cafe in Chamchuri square was clean and looked great from the outside. I ordered a double espresso. It came with fantastic crema on top. so good i had another!!! Excellent coffee nibbles, so much better than expensive western chains! I am a regular at the Chatuchak Market branch. This Thai coffee brand is worth discovering. The coffee (only harvested on the hills of DoiTung) is high quality, free from chemicals toxins, the biscuits macadamia nuts are also divine (and all natural)....More Munchin' Macadamia Latte This review is for the cafe at SCB Plaza. Interesting Macadamia Latte, as I munch on the Macadamia nuts floating in the Latte. An easy laid back seating just outside the cafe, good for chatting with friends. It's hard to appreciate the splendor of this setting without framing it in its historical context, without seeing the metamorphosis it has brought to the region. This is a standard for rehabilitation worldwide, but moreover it is a great excursion that offers a diverse set of activities. The Royal Villa can be visited and there is a treetop walk as well as coffee museum and so much more. There are restaurants as well. You could spend an hour here or 3 days in and around. That said, if it rains do the Opium museum first and return here after clouds have passed. Different styles and coffee beans with a unique aroma I like this atmosphere. People of various hill tribes (such as Akha, Lahu, Tai Lue and Lara) live there and cultivate coffee trees. It was very interesting for us to see a hilltribe village and their coffee plantations. Coffee plantation around DoiTung is lovely and local products fresh coffee aroma is great. Great coffee shop. some of the best coffee in Southeast Asia! DoiTung is a lovely place to visit. Cool weather and good coffee!. DoiTung hosts The palace, gardens, Wat and presidential Villa. The 'strip' which hosts the Palace and Gardens also has a restaurant, coffee shop, visitors shop, small convenient store. Coffee is grown and produced and so are macademia nuts. You can watch beautiful ceramics and paper being mad. they have some of the best iced latte we had in all Asia in the concession, plus coffee for sale. There is also a small lovely coffee shop for those who need some rest. Combined with a visit to the tea plantation, those two places offer a very interesting day excursion. . golden triangle, forested mountains, preaceful villages of the Pahee people, who are friendly and also famous for their coffee. Lovely gardens and coffee. There's a restaurant and number of coffee shops. Try coffee there. the life-changing work achieved here in terms of sustainability of farming methods, raising of money and awareness, educating local people, and weaning farmers off opium production and onto coffee production, it's also beautiful!. A lot of options to relax in the garden (benches). Coffee bar available at the entrance. Also a nice cafe where you can sip an iced coffee. It is a little steep going up and down the steps from the entrance/exit. Plenty of places to enjoy a nice coffee, Combined with a visit to the tea or coffee plantations in this area those 2 places offer a very interesting possibility for a day excursion. A relaxing spot to enjoy the beauty of nature. Great layout and a great range of vegetation. Coffee and Hazelnuts have hopefully replaced the Opium of the Golden Triangle and both are freely available here. The orchids are especially beautiful. Markets near the entrance make this a great experience as well. Enjoy a wide range of coffee available in the coffee shop. The cold hazelnut coffee was especially refreshing - enjoying a coffee while crunching on the hazelnuts - yum. We ended the visit enjoying some freshly brewed coffee and some macadamia nut cakes. Great coffee shop. This is the best coffee we had in Thailand. Theres great coffee shop at the exit as well- must try that! This would have to have been the best coffee I have had in Thailand it was superb. most wonderful coffee! There is a DoiTung coffee shop on the inside of the garden, so grab a cup of Joe before you explore the rest of the garden. A food and coffee is so expensive. Have coffee at DoiTung Cafe inside the garden or outside the entrance. I had a Cafe Mocha which was very tasty and fragrant. Do visit the Royal Villa as well. You can buy DoiTung coffee, honey, macademia, handicrafts etc at their souvenir shop. This place is about an hour's drive from my hotel (The River House). You have to pay a small fee to go to the toilet which is fine but you will be given a plastic bag to put your shoes in before you take the stairs down. Plenty of places to enjoy a nice coffee don't miss the macadamia coffee. Also a nice cafe where you can sip an iced coffee. In addition to the life-changing work achieved here in terms of sustainability of farming methods, raising of money and awareness, educating local people, and weaning farmers off opium production and onto coffee production, it's also beautiful!I. Coffee bar available at the entrance. There's a couple of places to sit and have coffee or tea There is a small shop to buy coffee etc in the gardens . the best coffee. Doi Chaang coffee shop - Doi Chaang coffee is another of the King's success stories, the local people aound Doi Chaang having switched to growing coffee and share in the profits of the coffee shops. The coffee and small range of cakes was no more expensive than at any other similar coffee shop and are not "very expensive". Training was given on growing new crops such as Macademia and Arabica coffee. A coffee roasting facility was put in place, along with DoiTung Cafes which opened throughout Thailand to provide exponential added value for local producers. The goal was to capture higher value. One kilogram of green coffee beans was worth US 1, but sold in the café a kilogram was worth US241. A macadamia processing plant was developed for similar reasons. DoiTung has invested in its brand, and gained the geographic indication certification which has protected the quality that makes DoiTung Coffee internationally competitive. production, processing and marketing of tea, bamboo, coffee and other products. The DTDP offers training to local farmers, which allows them to improve their skills and access to knowledge related to these promising sectors. Coffee plantations can also be seen growing along to road to the DoiTung complex. The palace was under construction but I enjoyed the visit to the gardens and DoiTung coffee, it is very good, please try it when you are there. The gardens are stunningly beautiful and kept to perfection all year round (there's a lovely little cafe also in the grounds, perfect for a half hour relax over a coffee). DoiTung Drip Coffee is the best that I had during my stay there. Whereas the area had a dark reputation in years apst as a huge poppy growing area, it is now transformed into an agricultural oasis focussing now on pineapple and coffee frowing. excellent. Great coffee! Coffee is excellent, and is grown and sold on the premises, and the restaurant was surprisingly cheap and affordable. Lots of local coffee and even a market selling fresh produce and hill tribe goods. Coffee beans sold on the stalls is cheaper in the Airport! Have coffee at the small coffee place in the center of the gardens and just inhale the view. There is a coffee shop inside so you can rest and have a cup of tea/coffee. The views are breathtaking of the rolling mountains and hills with the mist and coffee plantations. The surrounding countryside is beautiful with coffee plantations on the hillsides. It really is worth a visit. there is a coffee shop in the garden. There are vendors outside of the Arboretum parking lot selling wine, crafts, souvenirs, etc There are 2 restaurants and few tea/coffee vendors to relax or refresh from. We had a yummy coffee flavoured macadamia ice cream Latte whilst there which was delicious. There are plenty of places for a coffee or snack and we found this time of year the crowds are not so large. very pleasant lunch in the gardens at a coffee shop where we let the beauty of the garden wash over us. Lots of local coffee and even a market selling fresh produce and hill tribe goods. DoiTung coffee is excellent. There is a coffee shop inside so you can rest and have a cup of tea/coffee. Coffee at the cafe in DoiTung is really interesting, please try that. DOITUNG TRIP ADV . Interview The Royal Villa can be visited and there is a treetop walk as well as coffee museum and so much more. As for growing corn, it is used to feed animals, currently changed to an Economic forest area, where macadamias and coffee were grown. In the past, people planted Opium as the only means of survival. In the past, more than 90% of people in this area did not have Thai national Identification cards. offee takes three years to bear fruit in economic forests. Fruit on macadamia trees ripens after 7 to 12 years. Therefore, developing this level took us roughly 15–18 years. Lastly, the current situation at DoiTung is the next action is about to be taken. Sustainability: I want community members to avoid careers that bear responsibility for the environment and society. Working under DoiTung is not the only thing we do. However, it does allow him to start his own business. Establish a personal brand and produce goods that he can handle. Get your savings going. You can begin your development, instead of letting him act and think so that this development can continue. At the sufficiency stage, generating a steady, sustainable cash stream for the community is paramount. Therefore, we grew up in an economic forest. after much investigation, we discovered that Arabica and macadamia coffee are the most appropriate for us. It functions similarly to a social business plan. It must have occurred early on when we decided to use coffee to make money. Interviewee : Indeed, it has to occur simultaneously. Examine the market. Consider adaptability. Examine a variety of tales. Most DoiTung residents still send their cherries and coffee to the DoiTung brand. However, many people can handle the terminal processing and do it on their own. It is advantageous for the villages. The coffee originates from Akha Wild Banana, Pha Hee, and Pha Mee. Beneath the jungle is Riche's coffee. is a capable individual. About twenty tiny brands are owned by the community overall. Right now, we want to provide him with more information so that he can create better coffee. But then, sell it for more money. Interviewer : These are the skills needed to participate in the start-up. Interviewee : A villager or a larger group of people from his parent's generation may have worked on this project in its early stages. They are knowledgeable in the growing and processing of coffee. They're mostly members of the following generation. Next comes the individual who will handle the processing. DoiTung now runs five social enterprises. Food-wise, it will consist of items from the economic forest, such as coffee, macadamia nuts, and byproducts like honey made from macadamia brush. There are cookies, a macadamia spread, and a story about a cafe that serves as an advantage that we derive from nourishment. A villager or a larger group of people from his parent's generation may have worked on this project in its early stages. They are knowledgeable in the growing and processing of coffee. They're mostly members of the following generation. Next comes the individual who will handle the processing. DoiTung now runs five social enterprises. Food-wise, it will consist of items from the economic forest, such as coffee, macadamia nuts, and byproducts like honey made from macadamia brush. There are cookies, a macadamia spread, and a story about a cafe that serves as an advantage that we derive from nourishment. Since the market is, in reality, always shifting. continuously evolving Even if sales of our coffee are good, we still need to create new coffee kinds. This year's coffee, which debuted at the Coffee Fresh event, will enhance the breeding plot. However, Arabica covers it. Digestion and breeding Production and processing are required for coffee to be considered exceptional coffee. It's still a little lot as of right now. However, if we succeed in the future, we can extend it to the community. However, it's because our initial goal when inviting them to taste our coffee was to convey that it was excellent and welcome various coffee enthusiasts to visit us. Then, we informed them that something similar existed. However, we chose not to tell him. He is aware that he eats. It might not, however, spread as widely as macadamia nuts and coffee. We concentrate on a lot of trash with coffee and macadamia, enough to generate a lot of jobs, right? This one is that we are able to grow on a reduced scale. This implies that we give priority to those who genuinely want to visit and take care of us. then proceed cautiously. Furthermore, the story need not be as extensive as coffee. For instance, one plant can be used to plant many things. I already have several plants. Actually, we think of potential professions like those in coffee and tea, which they now cultivate. Children's interests in jobs and potential professions in the market We will let the child try it as much as we can if he is a small one. Tourism is not the main source of income. The main sources of revenue are macadamias, coffee, and food. Good coffee, high price Good coffee, high price. Located on the second floor of UN ESCAPE building. Good to have coffee while attending in any conference in the convention hall. Very strong coffee to beat the morning drowsiness! Stopped by here for a cuppa before heading to our Muay Thai class in Wattana. Survived 2 hours of the class thanks to the coffee Well, after leaving in Melbourne for more than a decade, my level of expectation from coffee is all the way up there... Yes, coffee snob, and when I travel I will lower it to avoid the disappointment. This little place located at the entrance to...More The DoiTung brand includes some quite pleasant coffee, and this moderate sized, airconditioned cafe next to Gate 1 in Kamphaeng Phet 2 Rd., is a welcome break from the heat outside. They do sell cakes and various "bakery" items, as well as the usual...More Under royal patronage, this coffee chain is part of a larger environmental economic development program in Thailand for the benefit of rural and communities. Best thing is they serve great coffee. Very enjoyable and robust flavours. Humble and friendly service. What a top spot for a much needed break while doing the rounds of the massive and inevitably steaming hot Chatuchak Markets. Third time we've visited here and it's like walking into a cool oasis from the desert heat. Their iced coffee is superb, they... Great coffee We had a little break or rest here from Chatuchak market. Nice staff, good service and excellent coffee. If you happen to have a chance to travel anywhere near DoiTung shop, be it the cafe, the shop, the temporary booth, do not hesitate to pay them a visit. DoiTung is the Royal Project by Princess Srinagarindra, who we Thais affectionately call "Royal Grand.. Love the Espresso!!! Finally - a fantastic coffee in Bangkok. this little cafe in Chamchuri square was clean and looked great from the outside. I ordered a double espresso. It came with fantastic crema on top. so good i had another!!! Excellent coffee nibbles, so much better than expensive western chains! I am a regular at the Chatuchak Market branch. This Thai coffee brand is worth discovering. The coffee (only harvested on the hills of DoiTung) is high quality, free from chemicals toxins, the biscuits macadamia nuts are also divine (and all natural)....More Munchin' Macadamia Latte This review is for the cafe at SCB Plaza. Interesting Macadamia Latte, as I munch on the Macadamia nuts floating in the Latte. An easy laid back seating just outside the cafe, good for chatting with friends. It's hard to appreciate the splendor of this setting without framing it in its historical context, without seeing the metamorphosis it has brought to the region. This is a standard for rehabilitation worldwide, but moreover it is a great excursion that offers a diverse set of activities. The Royal Villa can be visited and there is a treetop walk as well as coffee museum and so much more. There are restaurants as well. You could spend an hour here or 3 days in and around. That said, if it rains do the Opium museum first and return here after clouds have passed. Different styles and coffee beans with a unique aroma I like this atmosphere. People of various hill tribes (such as Akha, Lahu, Tai Lue and Lara) live there and cultivate coffee trees. It was very interesting for us to see a hilltribe village and their coffee plantations. Coffee plantation around DoiTung is lovely and local products fresh coffee aroma is great. Great coffee shop. some of the best coffee in Southeast Asia! DoiTung is a lovely place to visit. Cool weather and good coffee!. DoiTung hosts The palace, gardens, Wat and presidential Villa. The 'strip' which hosts the Palace and Gardens also has a restaurant, coffee shop, visitors shop, small convenient store. Coffee is grown and produced and so are macademia nuts. You can watch beautiful ceramics and paper being mad. they have some of the best iced latte we had in all Asia in the concession, plus coffee for sale. There is also a small lovely coffee shop for those who need some rest. Combined with a visit to the tea plantation, those two places offer a very interesting day excursion. . golden triangle, forested mountains, preaceful villages of the Pahee people, who are friendly and also famous for their coffee. Lovely gardens and coffee. There's a restaurant and number of coffee shops. Try coffee there. the life-changing work achieved here in terms of sustainability of farming methods, raising of money and awareness, educating local people, and weaning farmers off opium production and onto coffee production, it's also beautiful!. A lot of options to relax in the garden (benches). Coffee bar available at the entrance. Also a nice cafe where you can sip an iced coffee. It is a little steep going up and down the steps from the entrance/exit. Plenty of places to enjoy a nice coffee, Combined with a visit to the tea or coffee plantations in this area those 2 places offer a very interesting possibility for a day excursion. A relaxing spot to enjoy the beauty of nature. Great layout and a great range of vegetation. Coffee and Hazelnuts have hopefully replaced the Opium of the Golden Triangle and both are freely available here. The orchids are especially beautiful. Markets near the entrance make this a great experience as well. Enjoy a wide range of coffee available in the coffee shop. The cold hazelnut coffee was especially refreshing - enjoying a coffee while crunching on the hazelnuts - yum. We ended the visit enjoying some freshly brewed coffee and some macadamia nut cakes. Great coffee shop. This is the best coffee we had in Thailand. Theres great coffee shop at the exit as well- must try that! This would have to have been the best coffee I have had in Thailand it was superb. most wonderful coffee! There is a DoiTung coffee shop on the inside of the garden, so grab a cup of Joe before you explore the rest of the garden. A food and coffee is so expensive. Have coffee at DoiTung Cafe inside the garden or outside the entrance. I had a Cafe Mocha which was very tasty and fragrant. Do visit the Royal Villa as well. You can buy DoiTung coffee, honey, macademia, handicrafts etc at their souvenir shop. This place is about an hour's drive from my hotel (The River House). You have to pay a small fee to go to the toilet which is fine but you will be given a plastic bag to put your shoes in before you take the stairs down. Plenty of places to enjoy a nice coffee don't miss the macadamia coffee. Also a nice cafe where you can sip an iced coffee. In addition to the life-changing work achieved here in terms of sustainability of farming methods, raising of money and awareness, educating local people, and weaning farmers off opium production and onto coffee production, it's also beautiful!I. Coffee bar available at the entrance. There's a couple of places to sit and have coffee or tea There is a small shop to buy coffee etc in the gardens . the best coffee. Doi Chaang coffee shop - Doi Chaang coffee is another of the King's success stories, the local people aound Doi Chaang having switched to growing coffee and share in the profits of the coffee shops. The coffee and small range of cakes was no more expensive than at any other similar coffee shop and are not "very expensive". Training was given on growing new crops such as Macademia and Arabica coffee. A coffee roasting facility was put in place, along with DoiTung Cafes which opened throughout Thailand to provide exponential added value for local producers. The goal was to capture higher value. One kilogram of green coffee beans was worth US 1, but sold in the café a kilogram was worth US241. A macadamia processing plant was developed for similar reasons. DoiTung has invested in its brand, and gained the geographic indication certification which has protected the quality that makes DoiTung Coffee internationally competitive. production, processing and marketing of tea, bamboo, coffee and other products. The DTDP offers training to local farmers, which allows them to improve their skills and access to knowledge related to these promising sectors. Coffee plantations can also be seen growing along to road to the DoiTung complex. The palace was under construction but I enjoyed the visit to the gardens and DoiTung coffee, it is very good, please try it when you are there. The gardens are stunningly beautiful and kept to perfection all year round (there's a lovely little cafe also in the grounds, perfect for a half hour relax over a coffee). DoiTung Drip Coffee is the best that I had during my stay there. Whereas the area had a dark reputation in years apst as a huge poppy growing area, it is now transformed into an agricultural oasis focussing now on pineapple and coffee frowing. excellent. Great coffee! Coffee is excellent, and is grown and sold on the premises, and the restaurant was surprisingly cheap and affordable. Lots of local coffee and even a market selling fresh produce and hill tribe goods. Coffee beans sold on the stalls is cheaper in the Airport! Have coffee at the small coffee place in the center of the gardens and just inhale the view. There is a coffee shop inside so you can rest and have a cup of tea/coffee. The views are breathtaking of the rolling mountains and hills with the mist and coffee plantations. The surrounding countryside is beautiful with coffee plantations on the hillsides. It really is worth a visit. there is a coffee shop in the garden. There are vendors outside of the Arboretum parking lot selling wine, crafts, souvenirs, etc There are 2 restaurants and few tea/coffee vendors to relax or refresh from. We had a yummy coffee flavoured macadamia ice cream Latte whilst there which was delicious. There are plenty of places for a coffee or snack and we found this time of year the crowds are not so large. very pleasant lunch in the gardens at a coffee shop where we let the beauty of the garden wash over us. Lots of local coffee and even a market selling fresh produce and hill tribe goods. DoiTung coffee is excellent. There is a coffee shop inside so you can rest and have a cup of tea/coffee. Coffee at the cafe in DoiTung is really interesting, please try that. dOITUNG NEWS: Doi Chang and DoiTung, two well-known coffee varieties made from beans cultivated in the hills of Chiang Rai, and Sangyod, a strain of rice from Phatthalung province have all won GI certification from the EU, while Isan traditional silk and Lamphun Thai Silk were awarded GI certification from Vietnam. In fact, the late King brought the first coffee tree to Ban Nong Lom, which is taken care of by 75-year-old villager Phayo Talo. The monarch asked the villagers to cultivate coffee trees instead of poppies, which are an illegal crop, noting that coffee beans could be sold to consumers domestically and internationally. This came as a turning point for the hill tribe people. Today the villages are home to Arabica coffee plants, which generate extra cash for the locals. The residents have gained knowledge from growing the plants, which sounded and looked odd to them when the first plant was handed over by the late King 40 years ago. Somsak Kiriphumthong, owner of the "Coffee By Somsak" brand from Doi Inthanon, said assurances from the late King that coffee could be grown at high elevations had slowly convinced the paka-kyaw highlanders to embrace new crops. In Chiang Rai's Mae Fah Luang district, Ban Huai Rai Samakee School has taken part in the innovation project since 2010 with its coffee and bakery products sold under the Mon Fah Luang brand. The school products won first prize in this year's competition. "Many of our former students who attended the project were offered jobs in the tourism industry, such as in hotels and restaurants. Some started their own coffee shops," said school director Suppachoke Piyasan. "Besides academic knowledge, we also focus on building a career path for our students by teaching them vocational skills," he said. Fifty years ago, Ban Huai Rai Samakee School was attended by highlanders. It was run by the border patrol police deployed to maintain security along the fringes of the northern border. The place was later upgraded to official school status under the DoiTung Development Project, launched by Princess Mother Srinagarindra. Mr Suppachoke said the school zeroed in on home economics and the agricultural industry. It has acquired a level of expertise thanks to the supervision of lecturers from provincial vocational institutes including Chiang Rai Agriculture and Technology College and the Industrial and Community Education College. One student said Mon Fah Luang coffee was designed under the concept, "More Than Coffee, An Art of Living". Students handle all parts of the production process including "latte art" - producing an artistic pattern and design on the surface of steamed milk froth. The school opened its own coffee shop where students divide the labour fairly and take turns manning the business. This gives then on-the-job training in such areas as supervising others and handling delivery services. "Revenue from the coffee shop is split up: One portion goes to the students rostered to work and the rest is deposited in a school fund to finance the coffee shop project," Mr Suppachoke said This is where the group from Colombia was first introduced to Thailand's AD programmes, and the result of DoiTung Development Project's (DTDP) 30-year journey. They saw the coffee and macadamia factories, the handicraft centre for textiles, mulberry paper and ceramics which, incidentally, are also exported to Ikea's vast worldwide network. Arabica coffee beans farmed by former opium traffickers now feed the espresso machines in Caf DoiTung outlets at Bangkok's high-end shopping centres to Japan's Muji store. Packaged macadamia nuts, macadamia cookies and macadamia spread provide value-added for the macadamia tree crops that form part of the project's economic forests which provide a sustainable livelihood for the people. Coffee is another high-value agriculture product that originated in the DoiTung development project in Chiang Rai. Twenty-nine hill tribe villages currently grow Arabica coffee and macadamia nuts. Coffee beans from DoiTung are known for their high quality, while the DoiTung coffee shop chain was later rolled out to help deliver the coffee to Thai people. High up in the scenic altitude of DoiTung, staff at a wildlife breeding centre are producing one of the world's most prized coffees from the excrement of furry, four-legged animals. With expertise in animal breeding, several employees at the centre, located in Chiang Rai's Mae Fa Luang district, have turned to a side job to make extra money. They use the Asian palm civet (e-hen in Thai), with the end-result being first-rate coffee beans noted for their unique taste and aroma. The beans are packed and labelled "Civet [chamot ] Coffee".Klinsak Pitiwong, head of the centre who initiated the project four years ago, said money from coffee bean sales is helping to wean his staff off the temptation to engage in legally questionable side jobs to supplement their family income. Mr Klinsak said his employees at the centre grow fine Arabica coffee, which requires cultivation at an altitude of more than 700 metres above sea level and constantly low temperatures, under the DoiTung Development Project. Therefore, the staff are experienced and skilled in both animal breeding and coffee cultivation. However, even though coffee beans produced by the centre will be branded as civet or chamot coffee, the animals which eat and discharge the beans are the e-hen, not the chamot. "Chamots don't eat coffee beans, but the e-hen do. However, our marketing experts suggested we go for the word 'chamot' because Thai people are more familiar with chamot than e-hen," he said. Chamot also sounds more pleasant to the ear. In Thailand, e-hen are not on the list of protected species. Therefore, Mr Klinsak saw the opportunity to use these cat-sized mammals and make money. With a distinctive and pleasant taste, coffee beans obtained from e-hens now fetch a whopping 20,000 baht a kilogramme, compared to normal beans which sell for around 1,000 baht/kg. Mr Klinsak said selected ripe coffee cherries are collected from orchards in the afternoon and then fed to the e-hen in the afternoon. "We normally feed them the cherries within two hours of the beans being harvested, to prevent glucose in the yield from turning rancid, which helps maintain the quality of the coffee," he said. The e-hen digestive system reacts chemically to the coffee cherries and enhances the taste in the beans, bringing out the full flavour. The staff look for the e-hen droppings and pick out the beans for the subsequent stages of processing. On the cleanliness and hygiene of the coffee beans, Mr Klinsak said those Coffee beans separated from the droppings are left in the sun to dry five times. Alternatively, they are put in a dryer and sterilised. Next, the beans are left to mature in an ageing process, which takes about six months, before they are hulled and kept in a dark vacuum storage with the temperature under 18 degrees Celsius. Mr Klinsak said the product marketed as chamot coffee from DoiTung is registered as Geographical Indication (GI) merchandise by the European Union to ensure the integrity of the product. It guarantees the coffee is acceptable for global commerce. When the fledgling coffee project took off in 2012, he started small-scale production with two e-hen, which gave high-quality coffee beans. The product instantly generated profits so he decided to procure three more e-hen. Today, the centre has bred close to 20 e-hen. Mr Klinsak said raising e-hen is not complicated. They are fed two meals a day. The feed - which is made up of fruits, mainly gluay namwa banana, with an added raw egg - is given to e-hen in the morning while coffee cherries are fed in the evening. But he said production is not without obstacles as each e-hen consumes coffee in different quantities, depending on the weather conditions. In cold weather, they will eat less cherries than usual. Some e-hen eat only 100 grammes of coffee cherries while others take in more than 500 grammes. On some days, the e-hen don't touch their food at all. Mr Klinsak said the coffee harvesting season lasts about three months, from November to Januar y. Palm civets reach maturity at two years of age. The mating season occurs twice a year while their gestation period is about two months. They give birth to three to five babies each time. The expense of breeding and raising the e-hen comes to about 10 baht a day, or no more than 5,000 baht a year. It is a worthwhile investment with high returns, he said. Despite the relative lack of complications in raising the mammals, Mr Klinsak refuses to let each member of staff take care of too many e-hen, as it could hurt the quality of the coffee beans. Reflecting on his efforts to date, he said the chamot coffee trade could do with more marketing and promotion in Thailand. DoiTung chamot coffee is retailed as ground coffee. The beans are also sold in small, individual packs, priced at 299 baht each, suitable for making a single coffee shot. The centre wants to establish a niche in the tourism market in Chiang Rai, Chiang Mai and Phangnga. Before 1991, DoiTung was a deforested watershed mountain area when the Princess Mother embarked on a reforestation effort for the 95,625 rai. Now 30% of the reforested area is used for growing crops such as coffee and macadamia nuts.Handicrafts, honey, mulberry paper and garments are also produced as alternative sources of income for the locals instead of opium plantation. But the price of fuels and the electricity tariff used to make these products have increased gradually as the liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) price was floated. In 2012, the DTDP paid 2.4 million baht for LPG and 7 million for its electricity bill. In early 2013, the Department of Alternative Energy Development and Efficiency (DEDE) provided 12 million baht in financial support to the DTDP to develop alternative energy sources. In 2011, DoiTung revamped its coffee brand and relaunched Cafe DoiTung,which has over 20 outlets nationwide. Akha hill tribe villagers benefit from a royal initiative, writes Coffee lovers may be familiar with the premium Phahi coffee grown by the Akha hill tribe in Chiang Rai province near the border with Myanmar. The premium quality of Phahi coffee beans, confirmed by winning the top prize in Thailand's Arabica beans contest at Royal Flora Ratchaphruek 2011, has now received international recognition. Ban Phahi in tambon Pong Ngam of Mae Sai district is regarded as one of the best locations to grow Arabica coffee in Thailand. ction. Ban Phahi is one of 29 hill villages that agreed to transform their plantations to coffee and other temperate crops under the mission of the Princess Mother (Somdet Ya), who initiated the DoiTung Development Project, a sustainable alternative livelihood initiative, in 1988. Its aim was to help solve the problems of deforestation and poppy plantations while preventing local people, who were struggling for survival, from encroaching on the remaining watershed forests of DoiTung, a high mountain in Thailand's northernmost province. The project covers about 15,000 hectares and benefits about 11,000 people from 29 villages. DoiTung was once a secluded area in the heart of the Golden Triangle, known for illicit opium production. The problems of DoiTung were complex. The watershed area was denuded by slash-and-burn cultivation, compounded by opium growing. . The project has been financially self-sustaining since 2001. Since 2003, the project has been recognised by the UN Office on Drugs and Crime as one of the world's best examples of alternative development. Village chief Aran Pornjiraphaisal says the village owns and operates six community enterprises, from growing coffee to packed roasted coffee production. "Our Arabica coffee has a special aroma and good quality because 75% of coffee trees were grown under big trees and take longer to harvest," he says. About 95% of villagers' income comes from coffee. They produce about 200,000 kilogrammes a year from 2,500 to 3,000 rai, generating about 20 million baht last year. The six community enterprises include two roasted coffee factories. They are allowed to compete with each other to sell their products at market prices. Last year, about 30 tonnes of coffee were shipped by Ban Phahi to Japan, China, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand and Britain, says Mr Aran. The project also runs one coffee shop in the village to allow visitors to taste products. Plans are afoot to promote tourism in the village. In a move to add value, the village has also developed its own brand of Ban Phahi coffee, but Mr Aran says sales volume remains relatively low. Villagers run their own coffee shop in Ban Phahi. The hill village in Chiang Rai is regarded as one of the best locations to grow Arabica beans in Thailand. CHATRUDEE THEPARAT Ban Phahi is one of 29 hill villages that agreed to transform their plantations to coffee and other temperate crops under the DoiTung Development Project. The Thai government had applied for GI registration for the two coffee varieties since May 2013. Doi Chang and DoiTung, two well-known coffee varieties made from beans cultivated in the hills of Chiang Rai, have won Geographical Indication (GI) certification from the European Union, effective Aug 3. Doi Chang and DoiTung coffee beans are grown only in Chiang Rai province at a high elevation, resulting in their unique taste and aroma. In 2014, Thailand shipped about 700 tonnes of coffee worth US3.6 million, with exports to the EU making up 10% of the total exports. Doi Chaang and DoiTung coffee in Japan. Thailand has already filed GI applications for Thung Kula Rong Hai hom mali rice, Phetchabun sweet tamarind, and Pak Phanang tubtim siam pomelo in China; and DoiTung coffee, Phetchabun sweet tamarind and Lamphun golden dried longan in Cambodia. Thailand has GI registration for Thung Kula Rong Hai hom mali rice, Doi Chaang and DoiTung coffee in the EU, and Lamphun brocade Thai silk in India and Indonesia. There are 16 foreign products registered with GI in Thailand, mostly from Asean member countries such as Kampot pepper from Cambodia and Bolaven coffee from Laos. DoiTung coffee to become a premium product and ramp up coffee exports worldwide. DoiTung coffee is available in Asia and Europe. DoiTung was founded in 1988 by the grandmother of His Majesty the King on the edge of the Golden Triangle region bordering Myanmar, Laos and Thailand. The foundation has exported coffee beans to Japan for years through Japanese partners such as Mi Cafeto Co and Kaldi Coffee Farm Co. "We have been exporting coffee beans worth more than 10 million baht a year to Japan," ML Dispanadda said. "Japan Airlines (JAL) is the latest partner buying our produce." The DoiTung Development Project produces 250 tonnes of coffee beans annually, employing 800 households in the country's highlands. Some 30-50 tonnes of coffee beans are exported to Japan each year. DoiTung coffee is offered by JAL as part of its in-flight menu on service from Bangkok to Japan. The route carries 800,000 passengers a year and serves up to 300,000 cups of coffee. ML Dispanadda said the collaboration with JAL will help expand the brand's reach. He voiced hope that the inclusion of DoiTung coffee on flights would build further awareness of the product among Japanese consumers and, by extension, awareness of the Mae Fah Luang Foundation. JAL began serving the coffee on Dec 1. In 1989, the villagers were convinced to grow coffee and sell it to the DoiTung Development Project. ment-initiated Pracha Rat public-private collaborative scheme in 2017. The funds were to build a facility to roast coffee using machines. The villagers agreed to ask for an additional 200,000 baht in funding from the Pracha Rat project in 2018 to build a coffee shop. "We now have a new dream," says Mr Songklod."We dream of selling our locally-made roasted coffee not only nationwide, but also internationally." Only 10% of their coffee output is roasted and sold to visitors, with the majority sold to the DoiTung Development Project. The village's coffee production was 300,000-400,000 kilogrammes in 2017 and generated 8 million baht. Their output was 10kg per rai in 2017. Productivity fell in 2018 to just 2kg per rai because of lengthy heavy rain. Mr Songklod is hopeful a new facility supported by the Pracha Rat fund will help raise the village's roasting capacity. Roasted coffee fetches as high as 400 baht a kg, while fresh coffee costs only 18 baht a kg. "We're ambitious to develop our own brand of coffee because the coffee we make here is high quality thanks to the soil fertility and the perfect location 800 metres above sea level," he says. However, the village's development will be done on a step-by-step basis and is based on the successful experience of DoiTung coffee and other DoiTung brands The foundation was also designed to increase local employment by helping farmers grow coffee beans and macadamia nuts instead of opium, improving and stabilising the local standards of living. Coffee beans from DoiTung are known for their high quality, while the DoiTung coffee shop chain was introduced to help distribute coffee to Thais Coffee is another high-value agriculture product that originated in the DoiTung development project in Chiang Rai. Some 29 hill tribe villages currently grow Arabica coffee and macadamia nuts. Coffee beans from DoiTung are known for their high quality, while the DoiTung coffee shop chain was rolled out to help deliver the coffee to Thais. DoiTung coffee is now famous not only for its rich flavour and aroma but also its long history. PITSINEE JITPLEECHEEP The DoiTung Development Project, one of the four flagship projects of the Mae Fah Luang Foundation, is ramping up its exports, especially for coffee, seeking to reduce its business risks and provide local coffee farmers with sustainable income and better quality of living in the long run The foundation was also designed to increase local employment by helping farmers grow coffee beans and macadamia nuts instead of opium, improving and stabilising the local standards of living. Coffee beans from DoiTung are known for their high quality, while the DoiTung coffee shop chain was rolled out to help distribute coffee to Thais. tang 3rd Army. The project, which generates 400-500 million baht in revenue a year, has been self-reliant since 2000. It runs two coffee shops in Japan and supplies coffee products to Japanese retailer Muji. In 2011, it started supplying woven products to Swedish furniture giant Ikea. Villagers have also gained experience in developing standards from Ikea, which worked with the project for nine years before becoming a partner. "We're now putting more focus on coffee quality development from farm to harvest to increase coffee yield," said ML Dispanadda. "We keep seeking new coffee varieties to develop new and outstanding tastes. The foundation also collaborates with coffee experts from Japan, Guatemala and Panama, who have been offering advice on coffee plantation and processing practices." DoiTung is capable of producing up to 250 tonnes of green bean coffee from over 800 coffee-growing households. To accommodate future expansion, the organisation will not increase the coffee planting area but will provide new techniques to improve productivity per tree for DoiTung's coffee growers. Presently, DoiTung sells about 30-50 tonnes of coffee to Japan every year, mainly to the University of Tokyo Communication Center, and Cafe and Meal Muji. He said global coffee consumption has continued to grow well, particularly in the US, where speciality coffee especially has become popular over the past several years. This creates an avenue for DoiTung to enter the US market with quality coffee over the next couple of years, he said. importing coffee each year. The average coffee drinker spends 165 on coffee a year. There are over 100 million daily coffee drinkers in the US, a figure that grows continuously. nd, and in Japan in the near future. The foundation is gearing towards the opening of a new DoiTung Coffee concept store at the Mae Fah Luang Foundation Headquarters on Rama IV road next year along with a coffee roasting facility. It will offer speciality coffee products and services including coffee training and tasting sessions. "There is huge potential for the coffee business in the Thai market to grow, as speciality coffee becomes more popular They have been taught to grow coffee and macadamia. Their coffee products have proved a big hit with the project operator, Mae Fah Luang Foundation,using them at Cafe DoiTung, which has more than 20 branches. The DoiTung Development Project was initiated in 1988 by Her Royal Highness the late Princess Mother in remote areas around DoiTung in Chiang Rai's Mae Fa Luang district. She wanted poor villagers to abandon opium growing and farming practices that decimated the forests, and begin a healthier mode of living. coffee is far superior in taste and aroma than Nescafe Thailand has registered many GI products abroad, including Thung Kula Rong Hai hom mali rice, Doi Chaang coffee, DoiTung coffee, and Sangyod Muang The DoiTung Development Project ended opium cultivation in the area and set up a drug rehabilitation centre and social enterprises to generate jobs. It trained residents to reforest vast swathes of the hillside and grow coffee and macadamia nuts. It also gave residents 30-year landuse titles for small plots on which they could live and farm. The DoiTung Development Project covers an area of 15,000 acres (20 square miles) of forest reserve, where thousands of Akha, Lahu, Karen and other ethnic tribes grow arabica coffee, macadamia nuts and fruit trees. DoiTung cafe is also serving its signature ready-to-drink coffee drip Vietnam is a major exporter of robusta coffee, so this move may signal the association's plan to penetrate the Thai market as more consumers here increasingly appreciate the coffee. Coffee grown from this area has unique properties with a smooth bitter taste and a 2.0-2.2% caffeine volume, due to its geography situated at 400-800 metres above sea level. DoiTung, two well-known coffee varieties made from beans cultivated in the hills of Chiang Rai. Thai coffee brand has already won the hearts of Japanese customers, with average sales of 285 cups a day. Priced at 60 baht a cup, the coffee is inexpensive for Japan."It's quite cheap compared with other popular brands," said project chairman MR Disnadda Diskul. Cafe DoiTung is among the project's four sectors of food, tourism, craft and fashion, and agriculture services and landscape design. Josai Hospital provides medical assistance to Asian countries including Thailand as part of the Japanese International Friendship and Welfare Foundation founded by the hospital. MR Disnadda said DoiTung plans to establish a coffee shop and exhibition at the headquarters of the US Drug Enforcement Agency in Washington. The project has helped hilltribe people in northern Thailand to end opium cultivation by offering alternatives. It began in 1986 after the Forestry Department asked the Mae Fah Luang Foundation to help solve deforestation caused by heavy encroachment of DoiTung in Chiang Rai province. Covering 93,515 rai, the project now offers holistic and integrated sustainable alternative livelihood development and is the culmination of the late Princess Mother's lifelong dedication to development work. MR Disnadda said the popularity of the coffee brand is growing and he has received requests to open shops in South American countries such as Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. "They also asked for information and support from the project solving drug problems in their countries," he said m items to offset rising costs. The DoiTung brand comprises gift shops, housewares, fashion, mulberry products, coffee and macadamia nuts, plants and orchids, and landscape design. Exports previously represented 30%of revenue, but the global economic woes have seen the figure drop to 20% this year. DoiTung also supplies products such as ceramic goods to Ikea, the global DIY furniture operator. Some villagers earn 100,000 baht a year by growing coffee to supply the project. This supplements the income of villagers who also grow rice for sale and their own consumption. Over the past 30 years, many people believed villagers earned massive amounts from the drug trade, but in reality they only earned an average of 3,772 baht a year from growing opium, said Mr Gaisung. Caption A Cafe DoiTung in Bangkok. The Thai coffee brand is branching out internationally, starting in Japan. There are as well seven Thai products with GI registration in foreign countries: Thung Kula Rong Hai hom mali rice; Doi Chaang coffee, DoiTung coffee and Sangyod Muang Phatthalung rice in the EU; indigenous Isan silk yarn in Vietnam; Lamphun brocade silk in India and Indonesia and Phetchabun sweet tamarind and DoiTung coffee in Cambodia. Thai GI products being considered in foreign markets include Thung Kula Rong Hai hom mali rice, Pakpanang Tab Tim Siam pomelo and Phetchabun sweet tamarind in China; DoiTung coffee in Japan; Phetchabun sweet tamarind and Lamphun golden dried longan in Vietnam; Doi Chaang coffee and Huay Mon pineapples in Japan; and Thung Kula Rong Hai hom mali rice and Sangyod Muang Phatthalung rice in Indonesia. According to Mr Vuttikrai, Thailand last month submitted GI applications in Europe for wine made in Khao Yai to increase wine export y villagers. A university graduate in accounting from Yonok University, Ms Hathaichanok is the youngest daughter of Piko Saedoo, the founder of Doi Chaang Coffee Original Company. Also known as Miga, she is part of the Akha community in the village of Doi Chaang located in a mountainous region of Chiang Rai in northern Thailand, which has been growing coffee beans for about 30 years. Her university study is also the outcome of what began when her father,Mr Piko, whose face is on every bag of Doi Chaang coffee, led the family to start cultivating coffee. He became inspired after His Majesty the King in 1983 began the royal initiatives to encourage crop substitution to eliminate opium cultivation and slash-and-burn horticulture in the North. As the village head, Mr Piko had encouraged his fellow villagers to follow His Majesty's directive and join him in cultivating coffee. After 20 years, the beans flourished under the leaves of plum, peach and macadamia nut trees and in the nutrient-rich soil of the region. But the road to success was not always rosy. In the early years, the prices of coffee beans were pushed relatively low by middlemen. Most Akha tribesmen acted independently, lacked business experience and had limited access to markets. They were not allowed Thai identification cards and their lives had barely improved during that period, prompting several members to abandon coffee. Despite all odds, Mr Piko remained committed. By sheer luck, he met Wicha Promyong, a globe-trotting entrepreneur and trekker, in 2003. Mr Piko asked Mr Wicha for guidance on developing and marketing the Doi Chaang Coffee brand. It was Mr Wicha who helped resurrect Doi Chaang coffee into a promising product. First, he encouraged the villagers to unite and form their own independent company to represent all Doi Chaang farmers. With initial capital of 320,000 baht,a small company was set up to handle the production and distribution, eliminating the middlemen. Mr Wicha, now president of Doi Chaang Coffee Original Company, has not only been instrumental to Doi Chaang's coffee development. He also helps raise the standard of living and self-respect among the Akha people.He now lives in the Doi Chaang community as a well-respected, trusted member. In no time, Mr Wicha has come to embrace the Akha way and dedicated his life to improving the well-being of the Akha people and making Doi Chaang Coffee the best coffee in the world. nd for more than 20 years. After that, Doi Chaang Coffee Company became a unique partnership between the Akha hill tribe of Doi Chaang Village and outsiders. The villagers cultivate and process the beans, while the company finances,roasts, markets and distributes the coffee. Since the Thai farmers own 50% of the joint venture, they receive a price higher than the Fair Trade level for their beans, as well as half of the organisation's overall profit. More than a thousand households of ethnic minority groups now have a better life. Some growers now earn up to 1 million baht a year from less than 100,000 baht when the company was first set up by selling their unmatched coffee beans. Several families can send their children to study for a doctorate degree both locally and overseas It took Doi Chaang Coffee only five years to become the world's top-class brand. But what puts it in international limelight is not profit but rather its business model, which contributes income to people in the community. Doi Chaang Coffee was awarded the GI certification from the Intellectual Property Department in July 2006. The department has also sought the same vote of confidence for Doi Chaang and DoiTung coffee from the European Union to promote Thai products. The community-based business model now becomes a case study at several leading universities around the world. The coffee is now a pride of Thailand.It is also the only foreign brand in 60 years to be available through Harrods,the world's most famous luxury department store based in England. A joint venture is also planned in the United Kingdom with Canadian and local partners to expand its presence there. In Thailand, Doi Chaang plans to spend about 60 million baht to acquire new machinery and expand the coffee drying ground. Mr Wicha said the company not only sells Doi Chaang coffee, but also forest civet coffee at 3,000 baht a kilogramme.Lotions and cosmetics made from coffee by-product would be made available in the near future through the new company, Doi Chaang Coffee Cosmetic Co. Meanwhile, through a smart branding campaign, DoiTung has developed a franchise of coffee shops, and opened several gift shops that sell textiles, ceramics, and even a high-end fashion line created "from the hands of the hill In the years since, the community of 26 villages and 11,000 mostly hill tribe people has been transformed. 80% of the area has been reforested for sustainable economic use and the production of crops like coffee and macadamian nuts. Whereas MFLF's DoiTung Development Project has helped to develop coffee, macadamia and quality handicraft production within Chiang Rai province, members of the CSE team are working with those at MRRD to revitalise Afghanistan's Karakul sheep population (wool and sheepskin were key exports of the country in the 70s) through the creation of a 20,000-strong sheep bank last year. Which is the high-flying coffee house at the moment? Not any branch run by chain companies like Banrei, DoiTung, Starbucks, Ninety-four, Coffee World and the like. It's owned by a native from Suphan Buri. The location is on the corner of Sukhothai and Pichai roads, far away from the prime district. At that address is the one and only: Chart Thai Cafe. It was officially opened on Nov 19 last year and was not on the list of the most popular coffee houses, until recently. Owner Banharn Silpa-archa has never been known for brewing or making any kind of coffee. Yet his place has stolen the media spotlight over the past week. What makes this cafe stand out from other business competitors is that most of the customers are not people you might come across on the street. They are VIPs. Their names and faces are well-known. Even the owner himself might be surprised at the cafe's popularity right now.